//
//text on screen	(text on screen but it's not on the textbox at the bottom)
//subchapter
//opening here
//video
//choice
//sound only		(there's voice but no text anywhere)
//Chapter 1 start
//Chapter 1 end
//Chapter 2 start
//Chapter 2 end
//Chapter 3 start
//Chapter 3 end
//Chapter 4 start
//Araragi H-scene start
//Araragi H-scene end
//Girls H-scene start
//Girls H-scene end
//Hiyo H-scene start
//Hiyo H-scene end
//
//italics start = {\i1}
//italics end = {\i0}
//
//--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kitto, Sumiwataru Asairo Yori mo (Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color)

//Chapter 1 start

//text on screen
"{\i1}Its{\i0} shape is different for each person."
I wonder when it was that I started thinking this.

A vivid color dyeing the mountains.

A bright stain, as if paints of various sizes had spilled from the sky.

Looking at the mountains as a single canvas with different shades and intensities, what is completed there is the picture called "autumn."

In this season, the trees' leaves change clothes to red and yellow, creating the red leaves' scenery.

"That is this country's autumn landscape."
This perception is usually overlooked, but, in fact, the ones that change their colors are only the deciduous trees.

The evergreen trees, as the name implies, always preserve their leaves.

Although, an ideal environment for the trees—that is, with enough water throughout the year and a warm and pleasant environment—is very rare.

That's why the trees drop their leaves: to live on.

The leaves fall because the trees start storing inside themselves the nutrients they send to the leaves. As if grieving the fact they were abandoned, the {\i1}cut down{\i0} leaves lose their color.

Leaves being lost to red, the "red leaves."
Leaves being lost to yellow, the "yellow leaves."
Leaves being lost to brown, the "brown leaves."

This is the outcome of each of their cries.

The general term for these tears is "red leaves."

Well, I didn't come here to admire the leaves' tears.
Actually, I'm now "on the way to school."

"The eggs—the future artists—gather at this schoolhouse.
But its gate is narrow. Even the small eggs require the resourcefulness to break open the shell from the inside."

The "Yumemidori Academy" I enrolled in is often called that.

The number of applicants is incredibly high, but the actual number of students is extremely low.
It's even called the sacred mountain for those aspiring to become artists. Such is how narrow its gate is.

Its alumni always gather the society's attention.
Artist is an insecure occupation. I wonder if you understand how unique this is.

I wonder how abnormal is the diagram that {\i1}makes this practical.{\i0}

The creed called Yumemidori Academy is supported by the entry exam's violent shake-off, which is rumored to disregard even the administration.

The number of students doesn't matter.
It's a godsend if there's even one person who, among the thousands of applicants, pleases the superiors.
If there isn't, just reject those thousands.

This sacred mountain indeed towers among the mountains.

This is the result of an arduous selection of a place to give inspiration to the students and, at the same time, as a scenery to focus on works of art.

There is not a single private house in the vicinity. Its appearance is indeed of a solitary island among the mountains.

From today on, I'll attend the Yumemidori Academy, and I'm now climbing the mountain...

...in order to arrive at the artists aspirants' royal castle resting on its summit.

And thus, I am now advancing while pushing my way through branches of overgrown trees, but...

...at this point, I can't deny the feeling that I've made a big mistake.

It's broad daylight, but the forest is dense enough to obstruct the sunlight filtering through the trees.

The wind is strangely chilly. The leaves and branches are shaking ominously. I can only think they are mischievously stirring up my anxiety.

Or rather, three hours have already passed since I started walking on this trackless path.

Sasamaru: ...

Yes, I can't deny the feeling that I've made a big mistake, but...

How do I say...I don't want to admit it. I think this will turn into a serious incident if I admit this. That's why I'm applying a restraint to my heart.

But it'll soon be the time.
The moment when I must gather my courage and face reality has now arrived.

I...

Sasamaru: (...Maybe...I am lost?)

What was that just now!?

No, no, no, no, wait, wait a minute.

That was clearly a shout of something that could devour a person. Or rather, I think there's a strange song playing inside my head!

Perhaps it's that!? "Yes, one customer coming right in. Wow, what a fancy store. It looks like a stomach." Ah, how fussy!!

C-c-c-c-c-c-calm down calm down calm down.
At a t-t-t-ti-ti-time like this, I must do that.

Write "person" on my hand and gulp it.
Write "person" on my hand and gulp it.
Write "person" on my hand and gulp it.

This is called cannibalism...
no, wait!

Y-y-y-y-ye-ye-yes, I should count the prime numbers.

...No, wait. I missed one.

Err...
Yes, 31.
And the next one, err...

...Hmm? Where did I stop?

Sasamaru: Ah, wait a minute. I'll soon calm down.

I don't know who it is, but I'm glad it's someone understanding.

Err, I counted up to 41. The next one is...
The hell you can calm down with this, you idiot!

Hey, hey, priest with a sound effect like one's hair is being pulled one by one, this is no good.

Sasamaru: (Now that it has come to this...)

Then, I start my usual mental concentration.

//text on screen
"Three times at Buddha's face" is a Japanese saying that means "even the most gentle person will get angry if you repeatedly offend them," but what on earth was done "three times" to him? This is an abbreviation of "Buddha will get angry if you caress him three times" and this 'three times' means "to caress." In short, the Buddha is a target of reverence, not of caressing.

//text on screen
Inside an elevator, we often think that "it will crash onto the ground if the wire suspending it is cut." But the elevator is structured in a way that its brakes will automatically activate if the descending speed surpasses a certain value. Even if this device breaks, the air that is under pressure from the swift dive will function as a cushion, so, the elevator won't crash onto the ground.

//text on screen
The guinea pig is typically used as a classic example of laboratory animal. The reason for this is in large part due to its high breeding ability, but there is, in fact, another reason. It's because, just like humans, the guinea pig doesn't produce vitamin C inside its body. The closer the laboratory animal's body structure is to the human's, the better.

//text on screen
The Japanese character for rainbow "虹" has the radical insect "虫" to the left, but what relation do they have? In this case, it doesn't indicate an insect, but a dragon. It was believed that a dragon would call forth thunderclouds when it was soaring. And after the heavy rain following it had passed, they regarded the rainbow crossing the skies as the dragon's body.

//text on screen
The torii, which is the gate at the entrance of Shintoist shrines, represents a peg for birds. This bird is a "chicken" and, in the same way the chickens clucked all at once when the goddess Amaterasu left the Iwato cave from the Amano-Iwato legends, it is now placed at the entrance of Shintoist shrines as a way to inform the daybreak and as a guide of the gods.

All right!

Sasamaru: (This is the best move for when my mind is disturbed.)

Since I was a kid, I have this temperament of calming down when reciting bits of knowledge.
Though, I myself think this is an illness.

...Well, I have calmed down, but this situation where I'm astray has not improved at all.

My mood has changed completely. I'll keep walking for now.

This is no big deal. I know the summit is over there. I'll figure something out.

...Or so I thought.

Oh, I'm here again.
I remember this place.
Ah, there's the mark I placed on that tree.

...Wait, am I in a pretty bad situation?

The next day's newspaper comes to mind.

//text on screen
Overly optimistic
Failure in the counter value setting
...orld heritage

No, not that. Above it.

"Male student stranded on the way to school rofl"

//text on screen
"Male student stranded on the way to school rofl"
Weed Newspaper
Bad Year, Nostalgember, Today, Curryday
People - Electricity - Future
Uzumaki Electric Company
For the people and the ships' safety

Wait...it says rofl!

"Male student stranded on the way to school lol"

//text on screen
"Male student stranded on the way to school lol"

That's not what I mean!
And why is the newspaper stirring it up!? Do it a bit more tragically!

Sasamaru: (Not good, not good. I'm really falling apart.)

I become fainthearted by mistake. Maybe it's the fatigue from walking.

But it's okay. No matter the dilemma I fall into, I have reassuring friends with me.

I drop the backpack I'm carrying and take out its contents.

There are several items needed for the everyday life in the Yumemidori Academy's dormitory system.
From daily necessities like clothes and toothbrush to household medicine, writing tools, stamp, passbook, etc.

And also...

...a bundle of letters.

Sasamaru: (These are my treasures.)

I take one envelope from the bundle tied with a cord and open the letter.

Soon.
I'll soon meet them.

"The Four Noble Ones."

They're my childhood friends.

These letters are what I exchanged with my friends, together with me since I was little.

Due to family circumstances, I had to move. But even after we became far apart...
one of my friends kept writing everyone's feelings in these letters.

And written there...

"Everyone's so lonely."
"We wanna play together like before."
They always wrote these words that are more than I deserve.

Despite that, the only thing I could do was write back. And, in the end, not even once did I meet them.

But now is different.

Sasamaru: (We can meet again.)

I received news that everyone got approved at the Yumemidori Academy.

Though, there's one person one year apart and technically isn't "everyone."
It was quite the luck to get through this probability.

Sasamaru: (In any case, we got accepted.)

It's unbelievable, but it's a fact.

Also, everyone is in the same class.
I feel it won't be strange if I suddenly have an accident tomorrow and pass away.

Huh? Maybe that's why I'm stranded now?

But it's okay.

This was written in the last letter:
"Everyone is waiting for you."
This single sentence.

This is enough to easily blow away this situation.

No matter how much the thick trees obstruct the sunlight pouring onto me, I can walk forward.

They're waiting at the academy on the top of this mountain.

Sasamaru: Oh...!

A brand-new blue sky fills my field of vision, as if it was cutting off the darkness.

A refreshing air enters my chest.

The fear of the mountain standing in my way until a while ago has been blown away. Now, it's as if the mountain's splendor was enveloping me.
Energy is naturally arising.

I run like a dog that has been released into a park. After arriving at an open place, I survey the landscape below.

I instinctively want to scream, "yahoo."
...Wait a minute.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Perhaps by some chance...
No, there's no chance.

Sasamaru: (Isn't this place the neighboring mountain?)

I'm taken aback by the landscape stretching before my eyes.

It's almost a scenery from another world.

For some reason, the several clouds on top of each other are like waves.
Ebbing and flowing, they are creating a sea in the air.

This scenery is like a sea of clouds.
This scenery that can even be called "sea of clouds" is so fantastic that I think I'm hearing the sound of the waves.

It is so fictitious that I don't think it's a real scenery or an extension of reality.

I'm surprised enough to doubt my eyes, but, at the same time, I can't hold back this rising feeling.

Aah, that's right. It's starting.
It's starting {\i1}here{\i0}.

//text on screen
My new student life will start at the Yumemidori Academy.

I think: "The sky sure is a glutton."

This is probably due to my friend pointing out I've been sighing more these days.

Needless to say, I have a guess about the reason for this.

?: ...

Again, the sigh I let out rides the wind and is carried to the skies.

And it'll eat it in one gulp.
I wonder how hungry the sky is.

?: (Soon.)

Yes. I'll soon meet him.
I wonder how much I have longed for this day.

With the bundle of letters I exchanged with him in my hand, the strong words bound together inside them makes my heart race.

He is looking forward to this day very much.
He was always longing for this day.

And so am I.
My heart throbs every time the day gets closer. I wait while counting them on my fingers.

And at the same time, my chest tightens every time it approaches.
The day has finally come.

I open the last letter I received from him and recall what I wrote as the reply.

I remember every single word and letter.
I can never forget.

Because it is a letter I rewrote many times before sending.

That letter is the proof of my sin.

Aah, the sky sure is a big glutton, but...

...it eats everything, but not these feelings of mine.

Sasamaru: Sorry for troubling you.

Yumemidori Academy, staff room.
The one now sitting on a chair and facing me is my class teacher.

?: You sure took your time to pass through the gate, Suu Sasamaru.

I reflexively tremble my shoulders at the teacher's words.
Because I feel the weight of the word "gate."

Sasamaru: (That's right, this is the Yumemidori Academy.)

It is a renowned school everyone in this field knows.

Of course, the teachers working here are outstandingly talented.
They must have a real and strong pride about being enrolled here.

The real and strong pride of being enrolled here.

The students are no different.
I became one of them. I must keep myself together.

Sasamaru: I'm very sorry.

I lower my head once more.

Onitake-sensei.
My class teacher.

A graceful beauty, enough for me to be fascinated...
but I don't have time to have my breath taken away.

Those eyes staring at me are sharp, with a stern feeling somehow.

And also...

Onitake-sensei: Suu, I want to ask you something.

Her voice is also sharp, with an almost piercing tension.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Onitake-sensei: Did you feel something when...passing through the "gate"?

Sasamaru: Eh!?

W-what a deep question.
Am I already being tested?

I gulp the saliva welling up.
I answer while choosing my words.

Sasamaru: I thought: "I'm glad I was able to enroll here."

Onitake-sensei: {\i1}Glad{\i0}...?

Sasamaru: Yes. For me, this is an academy I longed for.

But more importantly...
I can meet with them again.

Onitake-sensei: Hmpf.

Onitake-sensei is glaring at me with sharp eyes.
I'm even feeling shivers from her gaze, as if it was seeing through everything.

"I can meet everyone again."
I wonder if this feeling is impure for a student who enrolled with the purpose of learning.

Onitake-sensei: That's...youth. No, it's because of that "blood."

Sasamaru: Huh?

Onitake-sensei: Hmm, fine. I'll guide you to the classroom.

After standing up, the teacher puts on her coat...
and gallantly leaves the staff room.

Sasamaru: Y-yes! Please treat me well!

In any case, what is with that teacher?

Sasamaru: (Looks like she isn't an ordinary person.)

That female teacher is wearing a male coat.

This academy is strangely chilly, perhaps due to being deep in the mountains.

The summer has ended. Although the season will soon approach autumn, the temperature is already strangely low.

The male students' summer clothing is a long sleeve shirt, but the female one has short sleeves.
I wonder if they're feeling cold.

I heard this academy allows plain clothes, so, the students can simply wear extra clothes like the teacher, but...

Onitake-sensei: Did you already finish your home's affairs?

I'm startled by her voice.
I feel like I'm being scolded with "don't think anything unnecessary."

Sasamaru: Yes. It's all right.

Following the teacher, I walk through the academy's hallway.
She's leading me to the art course's classroom where I'll be studying from now on.

I'll be "transferred" there.

Onitake-sensei: Good.

Yes, I'll be "transferred."
I can say it's different in reality, but it's pretty much the same.

The entrance ceremony was in last year's spring.
Today is the first day I come to school.

In short, I'm coming to this school for the first time after more than a year and a half since I enrolled.

Sasamaru: Thank you very much for taking my home's matters into consideration.

Onitake-sensei: I simply followed the academy's decision. I have no reason to be thanked.

Sasamaru: But...

Onitake-sensei: I simply teach what I know to the students taking my classes.

Onitake-sensei: If you want to thank...put to practice what you obtain from me, scheme and enhance it, and create your own work. This will be enough to return the favor.

Sasamaru: Sure!

This teacher is really amazing. That's Yumemidori Academy's licensed teacher for you.

I must keep myself together.

Although they're aware of my home's circumstances, I mustn't keep depending on them.

I'm taking classes after one year and a half of non-attendance.
I'm already relying on them more than enough.

Besides, I don't want to use the "circumstances" that delayed my attendance as an excuse.

Onitake-sensei: We're here.

The place the teacher indicates is the class I belong to.

My heart beats one notch louder.

They are...beyond this sliding screen.

Onitake-sensei: Everyone.

With that single word, a dignified air dominates the room.

Onitake-sensei: Today, a new comrade will join this class. Everyone, sit down or return to your seats.

The feeling of tension produced along with the teacher's words is very pleasant. Everyone in the room is focused.

Yes, her impression is certainly that of a slightly strict teacher.
Everyone in the class is fond but also in fear of her.
...Wait.

Isn't "sit down" the same as "return to one's seat"?

Onitake-sensei: Hmm. So, you didn't fall for it. Long ago, you were in panic, repeatedly sitting and standing up. You have been trained well, everyone.

Err...I wonder if she's a mischievous teacher.

Onitake-sensei: Well, everyone. His name is Suu Sasamaru. Due to some circumstances, he was absent until now, but he'll study in this class starting today.

Onitake-sensei: By the way, his birthday is March 3. His zodiac sign is Pisces. Blood type is O. His hobby is touching the "Japanese." His special skill is to concentrate his mind by thinking over bits of knowledge.

The teacher smoothly continues.
Amazing. She has already memorized my profile.

Onitake-sensei: Well, Suu. It's your turn now. Unfortunately, there's one student absent, but...greet the ones who will be your classmates.

Sasamaru: Sure.

I look over, but I can only see two students.

But this itself isn't an issue.

Certainly, I'm surprised after looking at the low number of students, but, thinking about the number of successful applicants every year, I know a case like this isn't rare.

Sasamaru: I'm Suu Sasamaru. I'll be studying here today and...

...Huh?
Wait a minute.

Onitake-sensei said everything. She changed places with me after giving all the information necessary for a self-introduction.

Onitake-sensei: Ha hah.

HEY!

What is this feeling?
Despite this being our first meeting, there's something dark coiling in my chest.

I don't have to talk about how narrow this school's gate is.
Consequently, there's nothing strange about the number of students in this class fitting in a single hand.

Including me and the one absent today, it's only 4 students.

We four.
A class of {\i1}only{\i0} we four.

If it's fate that we four got accepted at this school, then it's also fate that we chose the same course without arranging beforehand.

I don't care if this is karma, the Golden Rule, or a prank of the Gods.
The result is that only {\i1}friends{\i0} are in this room.

As a student who enrolled here to study, this feeling might be disrespectful, but...
for me, the Yumemidori Academy is like a place I've never experienced before. I can even call it a utopia.

"The Four Noble Ones."

These words indicate the four of us.

One of the Four Noble Ones, the "orchid."

Yumeno Araragi.

One of the Four Noble Ones, the "plum blossom."

Kashi Harutsuge.

My irreplaceable friends who were always with me during my childhood.

No matter how much time passes without seeing each other, I can immediately recognize their grown-up appearances.

Sasamaru: (So, the one who isn't here...the one absent must be {\i1}Hiyo{\i0}.)

I'm disappointed by this. But I'm sure I can see her soon.

Now that they're before me, I'm unable to hold down these throbbing feelings.

Onitake-sensei: Well, I'll start the class. Suu, you sit down.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Onitake-sensei: Keep yourself together. Do not forget that you've entered the middle of a curriculum that has already started.

Sasamaru: Yes!

Yes, she's right.
I must study with all my strength in order to repay this school for taking my circumstances into consideration.

But, contrary to my will, these boiling feelings cannot be held down so easily.

We can meet again.
We finally meet again.

I reread the letters many, many times. The days of imagining their grown-up appearances have ended.

They're finally before me!

There are two empty seats.

The seat by the window and the one beside it.

My first attendance was delayed by one year and a half. In this meantime, everyone spent their days as classmates here.
I was sure they'd force my seat into a corner.

There's no point in this. An unused, empty seat is nothing more than an obstacle.

I decide that my seat is the one by the window and head there.

Then...

Harutsuge: That is not your seat.

I turn to that voice.

She says this with an indifferent tone and without even facing me.

Harutsuge: You are next to me. Do not mistake this.

Sasamaru: G-got it.

My voice involuntarily becomes high-pitched from the nostalgia.

Sasamaru: Long time no see, Harutsuge.

I call out to Harutsuge while sitting on the seat beside her, as I was told.

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Harutsuge is gazing at the teacher without turning her face to me.

Ah...
that's right. Harutsuge was always strict with herself.

The class has already started.
I'll save my merry feelings for the free period.

We'll soon be able to chat like before.

Then, the long-awaited free period.

I immediately stand up and head toward them.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

Maybe due to an urgent business, Harutsuge immediately left the classroom as soon as the class ended.

But Araragi is still here.

Sasamaru: Araragi!

Araragi: Ah...!

Sasamaru: Long time no see.

Araragi: Y-yeah. Long time no see.

Sasamaru: Are you in good health?

Araragi: Err, well, my only good point is my health.

This voice...and this way of speaking...
She hasn't changed a bit since then.

Sasamaru: I'm glad you're the same as always.

I'm relieved that she didn't change.
Araragi is still Araragi.

I'm very happy by this.

Sasamaru: Ah, that's right. Araragi...

Araragi: Ah. I-I'm sorry. My next class is at the sculpture hall. I have to go now.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: Suu-kun, don't be late, you hear?

{\i1}...Suu-kun?{\i0}

Araragi leaves in the blink of an eye.

Sasamaru: (What happened to Araragi?)

She seemed quite in panic.
And also, "Suu-kun." She used to call me in a more friendly way.

She said that the next class is at the sculpture hall.

Sculpture hall?
Ah, I wonder if it's the plaster exhibition room from the academy's entrance guidance.
I'm sure it must be a class where you sketch the plaster figures that fill the room.

Interesting. So, that's the room's nickname among the students.

The feeling that I've finally come to the Yumemidori Academy is starting to appear.

But...

Sasamaru: (We should have gone together, then.)

After saying this, I tilt my head in puzzlement.

In the end, we couldn't adequately greet each other after that class too.

Sasamaru: (I want to talk with them today if possible, but, do I still have a chance?)

After school, when all the classes—my first ones here—of the day have ended. I'm walking through the premises with the school map in hand.

Sasamaru: (It's around here...right?)

I'm searching for the student dormitory where I'm going to reside from now on.

My belongings are only the backpack contents that I carried when coming to school. The truth is, I went directly to the school building without dropping my belongings at the dormitory.

The Yumemidori Academy has a boarding system and is fully equipped with dormitories on its extensive grounds.

Sasamaru: (I heard it's a bit unusual, but I wonder what kind of dormitory it is.)

I received a map at the office, but it's inevitable that someone unfamiliar with the place becomes lost. This is due to the building's placement that makes the best of the excessively spacious location: this mountainous district.

I had that much trouble just to arrive at school. I might lose my way again in these mountains.
I refuse to repeat this mistake.

Sasamaru: (Is it...that?)

It's very fitting for this place.
But it's also an unfamiliar scenery.

Sasamaru: (A thatch roof?)

And there it is.

Inside the gentle, pouring sunlight, as if it was lying down and basking in the sun on a grassland...
there it is built.

Sasamaru: (Cool. So, that's how it is.)

My expectation of the "a bit unusual dormitory" is betrayed in a good way.

Sasamaru: (...Not bad, I think.)

I'm surprised with myself for accepting this so smoothly.
"I'm sure this is how it's supposed to be."

Perhaps it's because its shape is very natural, or maybe carefree.

I unconsciously want to stretch myself inside this pouring sunlight.

"This is how they must be. It's the youngsters' privilege not to have such a boring rule."
They often say this.

I inhale this receptive air, permeating my chest.

Sasamaru: Please treat me well.

Starting today, this is the place I'll reside.
The house I'll live in until graduation.

I lower my head with a full smile.

Good afternoon to the days that will welcome me.

Sasamaru: (But...)

Though...this late, after finishing the greeting, there's a feeling I can't deny.

Sasamaru: (Which one is my dormitory?)

Looking around...
the building beside it...
and the one beside that one are all the same.

I'm completely overwhelmed by this air, but...
I have no positive proof that my dormitory is the one in front of me.

But, comparing them with the eye, they are all identical. I can't tell them apart.

Or rather, there's another problem.

Sasamaru: (Which one is the men's dormitory?)

The school's map is not that detailed. There's no "men" nor "women" written at the dormitory's location.

There's only one entry that can be taken as "the dormitories are gathered" around this place.

...There's the possibility that I mistakenly intrude into the women's dormitory.

It could still become a joke if I could say "I mistook the men's dormitory building" or "I mistook the room."

Sasamaru: (But normally, the men's dormitory isn't beside the women's one, right?)

What kind of paradise would that be?

You can guess this after thinking a little.
This must be a measure to prevent odd incidents from happening. That is, in case they wrote down the location of the women's dormitory on a school map available to anyone.

It has been kinda dangerous recently, hasn't it?
Though, this is a complaint people of all ages can say.

Sasamaru: (Which means that the men's dormitory is around here.)

...Oh.

I discover a writing that reads "painting course students' dormitory."

Got it. So, this is the dormitory for us, the painting course's male students.

It's a bit unexpected that they divide it by courses.
So, the one beside must be the design course and the other one the sculpture course.

Sasamaru: (Huh? But I'm the only male in the painting course, right?)

The students enrolled in the painting course were gathered at that class.
Araragi, Harutsuge and the one absent today.

Sasamaru: (Does this mean that the only one living in this dormitory is me?)

What king treatment is that?

I already knew about the low average number of successful applicants and also that the class members can be counted with one hand. But thinking a little further, it makes sense that the number of people at the dormitory turns out like this.

It's not impossible that the dormitories become full on a year filled with outstanding talents, but I wonder if the many spare rooms are an annual custom.

Sasamaru: (If I had to choose, I kinda wanted to make merry with everyone in a shared room.)

The truth is, this is what I was looking forward to when I heard it was a boarding system.

I often hear that once you get used to living in, you start feeling your roommate as unpleasant and start thinking, "I want a one-person room," but...

I was yearning for that.

Sasamaru: (But that's pointless in its own way.)

I'd be lying if I said I'm not disappointed, but {\i1}that spot is already filled.{\i0}

Because there are ones to accept my feelings of yearning from those times.

So, I'll renew these feelings and accept the scenery before me.

From today on, my new life starts here.

The entrance.

The hallway.

Everywhere, there's a "charm" that doesn't ruin the exterior's aura.

It surely is the Japanese style.

It isn't actually elegant. It's like softly straining one's ears at the everyday living atmosphere.
Even at a single scratch of the pillar, I can feel a quiet emotion that makes me call to mind the scenery that happened there.

This charm permeates my chest.

Sasamaru: (Although, it's because of this that they call me "like an old man.")

But I like this place.

Without delay, I open the sliding door of a nearby room and enter it.

?: Ah...

What suddenly jumps before my eyes is a serious face.

Sasamaru: Huh...?

I blink my eyes with surprise while letting out a dumb voice.

Without knowing what had happened, I stand stock still there for one moment.

There's someone...

...changing clothes.

Wasn't I the only boarder here?
Huh? Maybe I was convinced this was true, but there actually are other students?

But it's a girl.

Breasts a bit small, but there's no doubt about it since she's wearing underwear.

But I shouldn't be in the same dormitory as a girl.

...Which means that...this situation is a...

Sasamaru: I-I-I-I'msorryI'msorryI'msorry!!

Isn't this the women's dormitory!?
No way! And I was sure this was anything but the women's dormitory!

W-w-w-w-what do I do!? I won't get away with a simple "sorry, first-day-at-school mistake☆"

Or rather, make things clearer! Let a clear aura stating "this is the women's dormitory <3"! Why the heck is it letting out a countryside charm!?

It'd be weird if someone could "carelessly" trespass into a place that, for men, is a perpetual secret flower garden.

A women's dormitory should be more difficult to trespass on.
It should be a paradise stretching after overcoming many hardships.

To admirably complete the {\i1}peeping mission{\i0} and return alive. Or to perish just like that.
To turn one's school life thereafter into a {\i1}casino chip{\i0}; a duel between life and death.

Isn't it what this is all about!?
Maybe, I don't know exactly!

But what on earth is this!? I'll firmly object, you hear!!

?: Umm.

Sasamaru: I object!

?: I don't know what you're talking about, but...is that barking at the wrong tree?

Sasamaru: Yes!

I declare it like a man!
And I'll kowtow like a man!

Sasamaru: I'm sorry! I'll leave right away!

In panic, I turn back while being completely fed up with my own stupidity.

?: "Honey"?

Sasamaru: Eh?

At this moment...

...the nostalgic tune abruptly dancing in the atmosphere tickles me, as if caressing my chest.

Hiyo: Honey?

As if being pushed by that feeling, I unconsciously turn around. And what's reflected in my eyes is...

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

One of the Four Noble Ones, the "chrysanthemum."

It's "Kumigami Hiyo."

It's the girl who exchanged letters with me.

Even far apart, I was able to keep in touch with them all this time. It's thanks to her, who wrote about everyone in these letters.

Hiyo: Honey!

That nickname.
The nickname of those times, that she kept using to refer to me, even in the letters.

But when it is played by the nostalgic voice from those times...

...it's like water, the feelings, overflowing from the vessel, the heart.

Hiyo: Honey!

The overflowing feelings completely fill this water tank, the room, as if it was taken by waves.

Hiyo jumps at my chest.

Sasamaru: Hiyo!

So, I wasn't the only one overflowing with the feelings that were built up all this time.

I realize this after looking at the girl, burying her face in my chest.

Until today, she was storing it deep within her chest all this time.
Always about to overflow but, similarly, always holding it down.

"Until the day we meet again." These words became our code.

I was able to bear it because I believed: "We will surely be able to meet again someday."

But when this is no longer necessary...
the stored feelings will burst out...
...becoming words.

Hiyo: Long time...no see...

...becoming actions, enough to overflow even from the words.

Buried in my chest, Hiyo's face is deeply...

...squeezed.
Our distance disappears, as if our feelings were coming closer to each other.

Sasamaru: Yeah! Long time no see, Hiyo!

We are able to "meet again."
Honestly, my heart is trembling at these welling-up feelings.

As I thought, meeting again an important friend...
really brings this much happiness.

Kumigami Hiyo.
My...
little sister.

She might get angry if she knew I think of her like this, but, for me, she is like a little sister.

Looking up at me with watered eyes, she is so sweet.

Sasamaru: I missed you, too. Long time no see, Hiyo.

That's why I can easily say this even in this situation.

I'm sure that a "smile" means something that naturally emerges in times like these, right?

Hiyo: Honey...you haven't changed at all...

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you too haven't changed a bit.

...Let's keep it a secret that my eyes reflexively go to her chest.

Hiyo: Aah!

She's suddenly in panic, perhaps from noticing my gaze.

Hiyo: B-but I'm not dressed properly...

It's as if she was in high spirits from our re-encounter and now realized her state.

Sasamaru: No, I'm sorry, too. Well, I'll go over there, then.

Hiyo: Yes.

...

.........Huh?

Sasamaru: H-Hiyo?

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: Err, well...

From the flow of the conversation, we should separate ourselves now...I think.

But I wonder why the arms going around my back are stronger than before.

Hiyo: ...Why is it? My arms...won't pull back...

After she says this, they're now certainly stronger than before.

...Squeezing.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo is with a happy expression, with a face as if she might cry from embarrassment at any moment.

Her appearance is telling me how much happiness she's feeling from our re-encounter.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

That's why I reflexively caress her head.

Her soft hair is delicately dancing in the air, as if caressing back my fingers.

Hiyo: Hehe.

And then, exactly like a cat, Hiyo...
is making the face of a cat that sat on the veranda's "special seat" warmed by the sunlight shining through the trees.

And happily purring.

Hiyo: Hehe. I'm sorry.

Hiyo: It's okay now, honey.

After leaving to the hallway for a while, I return to the room after Hiyo calls me.

Hiyo: Sorry for the wait.

Calm eyes, the same as the ones from those times.
A small smile filling her mouth to the brim.

Her face is dyed red, though.
But far more importantly, Hiyo looks happy.

As if the feelings of happiness won over the ones of embarrassment.

And now she's facing me. I kowtow as soon as I enter the room.

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: I am prepared to accept any punishment.

Hiyo: Punishment?

Sasamaru: Thinking carefully, I committed a sex crime and, on top of it, I abandoned myself to the happiness of our encounter and committed that reprehensible act.

Hiyo: D-don't be like that, honey. You don't have to worry abou...

Sasamaru: I am prepared to take any responsibility for what I've done.

Hiyo: Eh? T-then, let's get ma...

Sasamaru: Getma. It's the alias of Dr. Waterclock, whose role was to manage water clocks at the Bureau of Onmyo in ancient Japan, correct? But what kind of punishment is that?

Hiyo: ...I see your knowledge is as strange as always.

Sasamaru: And you, who's keeping up with me, are no different, Hiyo.

This exchange is way too natural.
Unintentionally, we both look at each other's faces and laugh.

Hiyo: Hehe.

Sasamaru: Haha.

With just that small chat, I feel we've returned to those times.

Hiyo: Hehehe.

Her nostalgic smile makes me happy.
Before I realize, she's encouraging me.

Although, it might be strange for her to "encourage" me.

Her unchanging smile toward me, her nostalgic gestures...all the aspects that make me feel "Kumigami Hiyo" are uniting, blowing away my wilted feelings.

...Wilted?

Sasamaru: (So...I was really feeling sad?)

Really, how embarrassing.
I simply had a bad timing with Harutsuge and Araragi.

And I can let this go if I think like this. That it was nothing. It was simply an event of little importance.

Hiyo: Ah, I'll prepare something to drink. Sorry for not being attentive.

Sasamaru: Eh? It's okay, it's okay. You don't have to fuss about it.

Hiyo: That's no good, okay? I'll prepare it in a minute. Please wait a little.

As soon as she finishes speaking, Hiyo leaves the room.

Sasamaru: (...Now that she mentioned, I am thirsty.)

An unfamiliar terrain. Finally arriving at the dormitory after a long walk. And then, these successions of surprising events.

Sasamaru: (How do I say...she really doesn't change.)

Hiyo has always been an attentive girl, as if she was overthinking matters that even the person herself isn't aware of.

Her behavior and gestures are brimming with elegance. She's a "noble girl" no matter how you look at her.

Despite that, she has this attentive and meddlesome aspect.

And while I'm reminiscing about this, Hiyo is returning with teacups on a tray.

Hiyo: Here it is, honey. Here is a tea.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

After thanking her, I realize her curious expression.

Sasamaru: ...Hmm? {\i1}A{\i0} tea?

Hiyo: Yes. It became a tea the moment you observed it.

Sasamaru: Is that so.

And she uses another curious expression.

I wonder if this is her genes talking.
Hiyo's phrasing has always been somewhat logical, somewhat scientific.

After all, she's the daughter of a doctor...
wait.

Why on earth am I relaxing in the women's dormitory?

Sasamaru: Hiyo! Where's the men's dormitory!?

Hiyo: Men's dormitory?

Sasamaru: I mistook the women's and men's dormitory! I must get out of here fast!

It's not hard to imagine the miserable fate of a man who crept into the women's dormitory.
Since the age of Adam and Eve, the judgment passed upon those who disturbed paradise is banishment.

I don't want to be expelled after finally being able to come to school!

Hiyo: There's no men's dormitory, you know?

Sasamaru: There isn't? But why!?

Hiyo: Because a "men's dormitory" does not exist here in the Yumemidori Academy.

Sasamaru: That's absurd! Then, where do the boys live?

Are you telling me this is a girls' school!?

Am I into a situation where, following my grandfather's will, I dressed up as a girl and entered school, but I was cuter than the other girls, became popular, and couldn't stop cross-dressing even if I wanted!?

Hiyo: Honey, you will live here, you know?

Sasamaru: Wait, am I really a cross-dresser?

Hiyo: Wait, listen to me.

Sasamaru: ...By class?

It has been surprise after surprise since I came here.

Sasamaru: You're saying that this dormitory is separated by classes?

Hiyo: Yes.

I have confirmed yet another unexpected fact.

It appears the student dormitories in this area are separated by classes.

In short, there's no "men's dorm" nor "women's dorm." The dorms are divided by classes.

And an individual room is assigned to each student.

Sasamaru: That means...eh, I'll live in the same dormitory as...you and the others...?

Hiyo: Yes.

My open mouth isn't closing.

This is more than an unexpected fact. It's impossible.

Sasamaru: (What on earth is this school thinking?)

It's men and women studying together, you know!? There will be real harm, you know!?
This is not hypothetical; it has already happened a while ago.

I can understand separating by classes if it were a boys' school or a girls' one, where sex distinction is made when entering the school.

But every year, that?
No, it might happen every day if I'm not careful!?
What rom-com is this?

Maybe it's because there weren't boys' or girls' schools long ago, so, they didn't change this aspect.
But there's no point in figuring out how it started.

There's no point, so...
I'll try sipping the tea in front of me for the time being.

Sasamaru: (It's good.)

Nice one, Hiyo. Splendid skill.

Sasamaru: I don't have time for this!

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: Are you fine with that!? Are you fine being in the same dorm as a man!?

Hiyo: I certainly have some reluctance in living together with a male, but if that person is you, honey...

Sasamaru: Whoa! How bittersweet!

That's right, Hiyo is my childhood friend.
In addition, she must think of me as an older brother in the same way I think of her as a little sister. So, she might not be that reluctant about this.

Like hell I can agree with this!!

Hiyo: Honey, do you dislike it?

Sasamaru: It's not about disliking. This is a problem, right?

Hiyo: I welcome if it's a problem from you, honey.

Sasamaru: But it's something like the one just now!

Hiyo: ...Listen.

Hiyo clears her throat once.

Hiyo: I welcome it.

Sasamaru: Dammit! How bittersweet!

So, Hiyo isn't opposing this.
Or rather, she appears to be enjoying it.

She might be seeing this simply as spending a happy dormitory life together with a childhood friend.

Well, this means she isn't looking at me as a boy, though.

With no other choice, I sip the tea once more.

This is superb.
Excluding the fact that this is escapism, it's very good.

It's no exaggeration that she's praised as a heaven-sent child loved by the gods and endowed with all and every skill.

Sasamaru: (Come to think of it, this is green tea.)

Hiyo likes black tea, but she's serving the green one. I wonder if she remembered that I like Japanese tea.

Feelings of happiness arise. I'm now a bit less uncomfortable with this situation.

In any case, there's nothing I can do if these are the school's rules.

While thinking about this, I try to renew my feelings.

Sasamaru: (So, I'll be with everyone not only in the classroom but in the dorms too, right?)

This is way too unexpected, but I can look at this positively.

Or rather, if there's nothing I can do, I must become serious, then.

Sasamaru: I wonder if everyone will return soon.

Hiyo: Eh?

In short, this means I'll have a chance to greet everyone before the day is over.

One might say to not consent to such a temporary reason, but this is very important to me.

Sasamaru: So, divided by class means that Araragi and Harutsuge also live in this dorm, right?

Hiyo: T-that's...correct.

All right, I'll greet them properly when they return.

"Long time no see."
"Let's get along."
No, "let's work together from now on."

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: ...Aah.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Hiyo is suddenly with a surprised face.

Hiyo: I-I'm going to check the entrance.

After saying that, she stands up in a hurry and leaves the room.

I wonder if she's being considerate because I'm restless.
Really, she hasn't changed at all.

But for now, I'll rely on that consideration.

I'm kinda tense about greeting them again, maybe because they avoided me a little.

Sasamaru: (Naturally, naturally...)

After persuading myself like this...

Araragi: Ah, Hiyo-chan. I'm back~

Again, a familiar and nostalgic voice arrives at my ears.

They returned!

"That voice is from Araragi."
I jump out of the room as soon as I realize this.

Hiyo: Araragi-san.

Araragi: Are you okay now?

Hiyo: ...Y-yes. I am...but that's not important.

Araragi: Good, good. I'm relieved. I was surprised when you suddenly missed the lessons.

Ah.
That's right. Hiyo was absent today.

I completely forgot this due to the excitement from our re-encounter.
She seemed fine a moment ago. I wonder if she's pushing herself too hard.

Hiyo: Sorry for making you worry. Umm, leaving that aside, I have something to talk about.

Araragi: Hmm? With me?

Hiyo: Yes. Well, come over here.

Sasamaru: Welcome back! Araragi!

Maybe I'm wastefully in high spirits. My greeting is a bit melodious.

And when the sunset starts dyeing the mountains madder red...
I obtain another chance to talk with Araragi.

Araragi: Ah.

Sasamaru: Welcome back.

Araragi: I-I'm back.

Sasamaru: Aah, I was surprised. This school separates the dorms by classes, eh?

Araragi: Y-yeah, that's right. That's surprising.

Sasamaru: I'll be living in this dorm from today on, so...this might sound strange this late, but please treat me well, Araragi.

Araragi: Yeah. I will, Sasamaru-cha...

Ah...

Araragi: Ah, sorry. Suu-kun. I'm looking forward to studying with you.

Sasamaru: It's fine, it's fine! I don't mind if you call me like you used to!

Araragi: I...Is that so?

Hiyo: ...

...Why?

Araragi: Sorry for that at the classroom. I was confused because we hadn't seen each other for a long time.

Sasamaru: No, that was rude on my part. I guess I still can't sense the tone.

Araragi: No, no, Sasamaru-cha...Suu-kun, you were our leader back then.

Sasamaru: That's not true. You always made good follow-ups in our conversations. You were the character that gave energy to everyone, weren't you?

Araragi: What? I was like that?

...Why?
For a while now...why is she with a constrained face?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Everyone would be troubled if you weren't there.

Araragi: Y-you're complimenting too much. You'll get nothing from flattering me, all right?

Sasamaru: How do I say...Araragi, you're like a "hot-water bottle."

I wonder if this is my imagination.

Araragi: A hot-water bottle?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Like you're warming up everyone simply by being there.

Maybe I'm feeling like this because I'm in high spirits?

Sasamaru: When everyone has just gathered, we're all still chilly like a futon you just placed, right? But not an indifferent chilly. It's like everyone is still at a low temperature and the conversation isn't rolling yet.

Sasamaru: But when you're around, it's like everyone warms up with you in the center.

Araragi: N-n-no way.

I want to think so, but...

Araragi's carefree smile is the same as before, but, for some reason...
there's a discomfort.

Hiyo: ...

In the meantime...
Hiyo is keeping silent the whole time.

Sasamaru: Huh? Hiyo, what happe...

And then...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge!

Harutsuge is standing at the entrance. I wonder since when she's there.

Sasamaru: Welcome back, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: ...

...Huh?

Harutsuge: ...Right. We'll be in the same dorm.

Sasamaru: Y-yeah. I was surprised, too.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Err...

Ah, Harutsuge was always taciturn.

Not quite taciturn. She's not the type to make small talks.

Sasamaru: Ah, if you all have already made a happy circle inside this wide space, I don't mind living in the storeroom.

Sasamaru: Well, this is like a man who's living in the girls' dormitory. I can sleep in any closet for blue raccoon dogs.

Harutsuge: Of course.

Sasamaru: Y-yeah. Recently, there are also girl characters who sleep in closets too.

...Is this small talk?
Even though we're finally seeing each other?

Harutsuge: Good. So, you do understand. I'm relieved.

Sasamaru: Yeah?

What...is this air?

Hiyo: T-that's right, honey. You have just arrived and haven't looked around the dorms, have you?

Hiyo: If you don't mind, I can show you around.

Sasamaru: Ah, okay. Thank y...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: Yes?

Harutsuge: I understand. So, you were the one maintaining our relationship.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: ...H-honey, may we go?

Harutsuge: Hey, {\i1}Suu-kun.{\i0} Were you keeping in touch with Hiyo-kun until today?

Sasamaru: Yeah. We kept exchanging letters.

Harutsuge: Good. And what did she say in those letters?

Sasamaru: What do you mean "what"?

Hiyo: Let's go, honey.

Harutsuge: What did she say?

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san!

Harutsuge: I can't ask him?

Hiyo: ...W-well...

Harutsuge: Because you were lying?

Hiyo: ...!

Sasamaru: Lying?

Harutsuge: I'm sure you desperately kept telling lies to please Suu-kun. I can imagine what you were writing in those letters.

Sasamaru: Lying? Hiyo isn't a person who lies.

Harutsuge: Yes. Hiyo-kun is not a person who tells lies that hurt others.

Harutsuge: Because she is {\i1}a kind girl who chooses to lie rather than to hurt someone, even if this is painful for her.{\i0}

Sasamaru: What...what are you talking about?

Harutsuge: I finally understand why Hiyo-kun was absent today. She didn't know how to face you...because she has lied.

Hiyo: Nngh...

Sasamaru: Hiyo? Eh...what are you saying...

Harutsuge: I was thinking that I shouldn't say this, but if I must, then I will plainly and clearly say it.

Hiyo: H-honey! Let's go!

Harutsuge: Suu-kun. We had forgotten about you.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: That's not true! I was looking forward to the day we could see him again!

Harutsuge: I'll rephrase it, then. Suu-kun, {\i1}I{\i0} wasn't particularly waiting for you.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san!!

Harutsuge: Use common sense here, Suu-kun. No matter how much we used to play in the past, do you usually think about someone you haven't seen for this long? Do you keep worrying about someone who's unrelated to your everyday life?

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Even if you remember something, the best you can say is "ah, that did happen."

Harutsuge: Even if you have this warm feeling when reminiscing like "those days were fun," you have your every day before you. And this every day keeps changing.

Harutsuge: No one {\i1}expects a convenient relationship that lasts forever.{\i0}

Harutsuge: There's no such a thing. This is the logic of a child. To understand this is called growing up. Everyone thinks that the events and people around themselves are more important.

Harutsuge: When you see someone after a long time, they will have changed.

Harutsuge: But of course. They have been living an every day you weren't aware of. They might be more friendly than a stranger, but the past relationship won't be preserved.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I'm sure Hiyo-kun wrote this in her letters: "Everyone is looking forward to seeing you again."

Harutsuge: Unfortunately, such a convenient relationship is nothing more than an illusion.

Harutsuge: Well, let's start again, Suu-kun. Long time no see. How are you?

Sasamaru: ...Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: Well, that's good. I was looking forward to seeing you again. I was really looking forward to this day.

Harutsuge: Well, let's do our best as school friends. This is the Yumemidori Academy. We both entered here to improve ourselves for the sake of our futures. As students, we have to keep ourselves together.

Harutsuge: We didn't have these feelings in the past, right? But we're at this age now. So...

Sasamaru: ...It's fine...

Harutsuge: So, let's move on from this "best friends forever."

Harutsuge: {\i1}We are not children.{\i0}

Sasamaru: I got it already!!

I...
am unable to stay here.

I brazenly raise my voice and rush out from here as if running away.

They, the trees, are naked, swimming in the sea under the moonlight.

The winter always feels cold.
Every year, it becomes a robber who steals the warm clothes, the leaves, from the trees.

But having their clothes taken in this season, where the autumn has just started...

I wonder if this means that even the autumn has joined the winter's group of thieves.

Normally, this season's trees are supposed to be dressed up in clothes of various shades of red and yellow.

They, the trees, are utterly stark naked, without exception.
That's why their appearance under the moonlight is meager, as if they were drowning.

They are drowning.
Drowning in the sea of mist.

There's little hope for a rescue inside this deep, deep mist, as if they were engulfed by a great wave.

What fills my field of vision are only these countless withered trees.
No matter where I go, there's this withered and naked scenery that makes one mistake the current season.

This is a sea of withered trees.

Right now, I'm overlapping with this faded scenery.
I misunderstood and was in high spirits. I'm unbearably miserable.

...But I can't help but remember it.
Like a certain folk story, I'm scattering ashes over those withered trees.

What will bloom aren't flowers, but...
a very faded scenery.

My memories are there.
My irreplaceable memories, colored by the various shades of autumn.

In the scenery I remember, there's always the breath of autumn called red leaves—sometimes as the stage, sometimes as an ornament gently garnishing the scenery.

Sasamaru: The Four Noble Ones...

...The day these words were engraved on my chest.

Sasamaru: We are the...Four Noble Ones...

The words I can never forget.

Sasamaru: We are the..."Four Noble Ones"!

Those words have saved me. I don't care how much they laugh as foolish.

They shared with me these words. I was able to live until today because they were there for me.

Sasamaru: Dammit!!

This scream is being engulfed by the yellow darkness floating in the empty sky.

Hiyo: Ho...ney...

And there's Hiyo, out of breath.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

I wonder if she came chasing after me.
Still, her breath is intermittent.

Despite her body seeking oxygen enough to make her breathe with her shoulders, she's keeping it back with her feelings.

As if she had forgotten even to breathe because of the guilt.

Hiyo: I'm...sorry...

Reflecting in my eyes, she's colored with a sadness that might crush her at any moment now.

Sasamaru: It's all right.

...I feel guilt.

Hiyo: I'm...sorry...!

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you lied in consideration for me, right? Thanks.

Hiyo: But...

Sasamaru: ...Sorry. I know what you want to say...I think I know, but...

Sasamaru: It's just, err, I can't express it well. Sorry.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san...didn't mean that.

Sasamaru: ...No, what Harutsuge said is correct. I was merely a brat.

Hiyo: That's not...

Sasamaru: ...I was mistaken.

I know.
I know, but...

...why am I about to be torn to pieces by this "mortifying" feeling?

Hiyo: It's not that. I'm the wrong one. I did all that and...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: I'm sorry...but you don't have to blame yourself.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Sorry. I'm really sorry.

Sasamaru: But it's fine. It's...fine.

I was always...
relying on Hiyo.
Even far apart, I was always, always depending on her.

She must have had feelings of guilt every time she wrote those letters. Despite that, I spent all this time without realizing this.

I didn't realize the weight of those letters.
I was in high spirits of my own accord.

Harutsuge: So, let's move on from this "best friends forever."

Harutsuge: {\i1}We are not children.{\i0}

...She said that.

I'm so frustrated I could cry. Stop pretending to be strong, you idiot.

Aah, dammit.
This does hurt.

How much was I looking forward to this day?
How much was I waiting for the day to see everyone again?
This doesn't matter now.

It's not that.

Those so warm feelings chilled down so easily.

"The passing of days are cruel." These clichéd words come to mind.

Aah, it's you, the darkness.

It has been a long time since we met like this.
This is just like long ago.

If possible, I never wanted to see you again. Dammit.

Disappear, you idiot.

Sasamaru: (I'm saying to disappear!)

It's returning.
It's coming back.

...And so easily.
The darkness is returning.

Sasamaru: ...

What kept warming inside my chest all this time lost its warmth so easily like this.

This is very sad.

For me, it's so hot and heavy that it might have burned the insides of my chest when it turned over.

That's why it hurts this much.

Hiyo: I'm sorry...

...I'll stop it.
I'll endure it.

Hiyo: I'm...sor...

Because, look. Hiyo is crying.

I'm sure I wasn't the one suffering.
She was.

Sasamaru: Don't cry.

Hiyo: I'm sorry...I'm sorry!

The girl repeatedly apologizing is very pitiable.

Sasamaru: It's fine. Thanks, Hiyo.

And I'm worthless for having no other words.

I was thinking only about myself, in high spirits about our re-encounter. I made her be considerate of me even after I was feeling down. And I'm still thinking only about myself.

Sasamaru: Sorry for making you be considerate.

In the end, I haven't changed at all.

Hiyo: But...honey, you were always treasuring the words "The Four Noble Ones."

Despite being my true feelings, these words are piercing my chest.

My chest is heavy, with a shape different from our exchanges so far.

...It's valuable to me.

So valuable, so valuable. I was unsightly clinging to it.

Hiyo: ...So, I am the "chrysanthemum."

Inside a cozy and faint scenery, a voice resounded.

Hiyo: Next, Araragi-san is the "orchid."

After these words, someone asked, "why?"

Hiyo, with a triumphant face...

Hiyo: It's rare to read the Japanese character for orchid as "Araragi." So, Araragi-san is the "orchid" just like that.

...answered.

That was a new finding for me, who had only seen the character for "orchid" on her name plate.

Hiyo: And Harutsuge-san is the "plum blossom."

And, again, someone asked, "why?"

Hiyo: The plum blossom has several other names such as "Koubunboku," "Konohana," and "Kazemachi-gusa" And one of those is "Harutsuge-gusa," meaning 'grass that announces the spring.'

Again, while showing a triumphant expression, Hiyo said: "That's why Harutsuge is the 'plum blossom.'"

For Hiyo, that was simply a conversation about an idea that occurred to her.

She must had been happy for noticing we have a common feature.
It was simply a childlike story told a bit triumphantly.

But for me, it was different.

That day was the start.
The starting memory for me to finally be able to walk as "myself."

That...

That darkness dwelling deep inside me, as if a large hole were opened.

What cut off that darkness was...

......a light.

"Chrysanthemum,"
"orchid,"
"plum blossom."

Yes, I understood that each one of them could be linked to a plant, but what on earth did that mean?

Hiyo told the answer she had prepared to that obvious question.

Hiyo: Do you know about "The Four Noble Ones"?

Of course, a kid like me didn't have such knowledge.

Hiyo: "The Four Noble Ones" are the orchid, the bamboo, the chrysanthemum, and the plum blossom. Each one is a plant representing one season, and they're praised as the "noble ones."

Hiyo: The orchid is spring, the bamboo is summer, the chrysanthemum is autumn, and the plum blossom is winter. Together they form the "Four Noble Ones."

Hiyo: And this is the common feature I noticed about us four.

She said "common feature."
The sudden common feature of us four, who were always playing together.

And, naturally, "why am I the 'bamboo'?"
Someone asked that question.

Hiyo: Eh...b-but...

At that moment, Hiyo displayed a faltering expression for one instant.

Hiyo: B-bamboo and bamboo grass—sasa—are almost the same. The only difference is that the large one is the bamboo and the small one is the bamboo grass. Both are from the Poaceae family and Bambusoideae subfamily.

But she promptly told her prepared answer.

Or rather, asserted.

Though, I'm sure everyone was thinking that it was simply a technicality. The 'sasa' in my name means bamboo grass, and not bamboo.

Everyone soon forgot about that feeling.

Because...

Hiyo: Eh?

Hiyo was surprised, with both her round eyes wide open.

Hiyo: H-honey?

Everyone was surprised.

...I was crying after hearing that story.
"Waah-waah," crying disgracefully.

I yearned.
There was something I always, always wanted.

This place is very dark.

Very, very dark.
So dark that I can't see well.

That's why there is something very radiant.

Always so radiant that it is always burned into my eyes.

After returning home, after being alone, that scenery comes to mind simply by closing my eyes.

As if it was engraved on the inner part of my eyelids.

The light rising to the surface.

Uncertain if it's visible or not, I see it passing through my vague field of vision. It's turning into a dim light.

But still, it's radiant.

Something everyone has.
Something we naturally have.

"It" is there beside someone, and "it" is also there beside someone else.

Someone is "it" with someone, and also is "it" with someone else.

Somehow stretching this natural "ring."
I feel "it" as something really natural.

But I never had "it."

Hiyo: H-honey? What's wrong? What's wrong?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, are you hurt? Are you okay?

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Ha-Harutsuge-chan!

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Well, look. The children's animal encyclopedia said that happiness is to be able to cry whenever you want to.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan...

Harutsuge: S-s-sorry. This is the first time I see a boy crying like this. I made a lot of them cry, though.

...Aah, jeez.

"That darkness went somewhere."
"It went away."

"I can say bye-bye to that dark thing."

I made friends.

I didn't like the darkness.
I was scared of the dark.
But I thought it was normal.

I wanted, but...
I wanted to stretch my hand, but...
I thought I was different from everyone.

I thought it was normal to think like this.

"The Four Noble Ones."

It sounded very dazzling.
So dazzling that I couldn't open my eyes.

At that moment, I understood: "Aah, okay. So, this is what 'treasure' means."

I understood.
That's why...

Sasamaru: ...I'm grateful.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: That day, I was really grateful for you to let me, the bamboo grass, into the "Four Noble Ones."

I was scared because I understood it.

The moment I understood it, something impossibly frightening was born.

Since that day, since that moment, my fear of losing this was greater than anything.

Sasamaru: (I was scared.)

Now...

...what I desperately tied together is spilling from between my fingers.

Sasamaru: The morning color...

After turning the feelings welling up from deep inside my chest into shape, these words appear.

Showing its face, the morning sunlight is shining down.

Even if the night sky is covered by clouds, and I'm unable to see the glitter of the stars, the sunlight will pour on the ground, weaving through the small rifts in the clouds.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: That's right...I still...

...have something to believe in.
...have something I can keep believing in.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: I got it, Hiyo. I can't lose heart over something like this.

I have something unshakable.

No matter how many heavy clouds surround us now...

...the morning sun will always shine upon us.

It's autumn.

My memories were always in the autumn season.

That day was also autumn.

//subchapter
The Days We Walk Forward
September 4 (Friday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

The morning starts.

No matter how much I feel sad, no matter how I feel like melting into the night's darkness, the morning will always come.

That day was the first time I realized how grateful I was for this natural event.

Sasamaru: Good morning!

First thing in the morning.
I cheerfully greet Harutsuge after encountering her in the living room.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge shows a confused expression for a short while.
And right after it...

Harutsuge: ...Good morning.

She replies to me.

Yes, this is fine for now.
It's all right if she simply greets me back.

She's not ignoring me.
She would deny my very existence if she were, but this is not the case.

Then...

Sasamaru: Good morning!

I should simply face forward.

I'll throw my feelings onto them.
I'll do it even if they say that they're annoyed.

Yes, they might have changed.

It's natural that they value their present life.
No one has the right to criticize this.

I should simply change it, then.
Now that I came to this school, I've become part of their lives.
After all, we are in the same class and dormitory.

I'll build our relationship of those days.

If I can keep believing in this...
I don't mind if they feel annoyed.

Araragi: Ah.

And right after thinking that...

Araragi: G-good morning~...

Araragi is in her pajamas.

Araragi: J-jeez, how careless of me. I can't walk in my pajamas anymore, right?

Sasamaru: Err, well...

Oh, no.
I forgot that I'm now a man who slipped into a women's den.

Araragi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha~

Sasamaru: ...

...Umm, sorry.

Hiyo: Good morning.

When I step into the living room, it is filled with a smell that tickles my nasal cavity.

It's a mouth-watering smell, enough to make my stomach growl.

Sasamaru: G-good morning...

Looking closely, Hiyo is taking several items from the tray and lining them up on the living room's table.

Hiyo: Nice timing. I just prepared the breakfast. Please, have a seat.

Sasamaru: Eh...m-my breakfast?

Hiyo: Yes.

Which reminds me, how are the meals in this school?

Thinking about it, this is a boarding school deep in the mountains, but I haven't seen anyone similar to a housemother.

Which means there's no one inside the dorm to prepare the meals.

Sasamaru: We make it ourselves?

Hiyo: Yes.

She says that this school's custom is for the students themselves to prepare the meals.

This varies by dormitory. If there's a dorm where the students take turns to cook, there's also a dorm where the student who's a good cook single-handedly prepares the meals.
Each one is different.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you're in charge of the meals in this dorm?

Hiyo: No, it's a duty system. Today is my day by chance.

Of course.
Meaning that Harutsuge and Araragi's turn will come eventually.

At any rate, this smells great.
It's not just the smell. The appearance stirs up the appetite, whether one wants it or not.

With one glance, it doesn't seem to be a meal that took much effort to make. But looking closely, it's so elaborate you don't think it's breakfast.

Served in a circular plate, rice releasing a freshly-cooked brilliance.

The miso soup has tofu and seaweed as ingredients.

Exactly because this is a standard dish, the consistency, taste, and also the delightful scallion further enhance the forethought of this happy combination.

The small bowl coloring the dining table starts with a grated pollack roe, which can be eaten as it is or sprinkled over the rice.

The boiled dark seaweed that helps prevent anemia is the perfect dish for breakfast, the first meal of the day.

The spinach dressing the tofu has carrots and konnyaku, making it highly nutritious.

The porcelain has a grilled fish, merrily garnished with a small eggplant dressed with mustard.

Let's not forget the toasted seaweed as the side dish.

Oops, and when I was thinking there wasn't an egg dish...
a savory egg custard as a steamed dish.

The moment I open the lid, the shrimp that plunges into my vision looks so tender it may jump out of the container at any moment.

And the pickled vegetables.

Nowadays, pickled vegetables are used as a synonym of tsukemono, but they originally represented only vegetables.
And, as if sensing this, a three-color combination of turnip, leaf mustard, and Chinese radish.

Only really elaborated dishes the first thing in the morning.

Although I said all that, this amount isn't overwhelming my stomach that just woke up. This amount of food was coordinated, as if it was perfectly calculated.

I mean, wow.
All of these are dishes I've only seen years ago in gourmet books at bookstores.

Since last night, I've only been thinking about the future and completely forgot about the meals. And still, I'm fascinated by this.

"Anyone will be hungry after seeing a meal like this one!"

Hiyo's cooking is filled with a charm that makes me reflexively want to scream this out loud.

Araragi: Breakfast~ breakfast~

And then comes Araragi, already changed into the school uniform.

Araragi: Sorry for that just now. I made a fool of myself.

Harutsuge: ...

Arriving immediately after her, Harutsuge goes to her seat.
And with this, this dorm's students are all gathered.

Sasamaru: ...

I watch this scene in blank amazement.

Hiyo: ...Honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing.

That's right.
That's...right.
This is how...a "dormitory" is.

"We can eat the meals together."
I am perplexed by this joy.

I know in my mind we are in "the same dorm," but I don't know how to react now that we are facing each other.

Sasamaru: (This is how it is, right? This is the normal, yeah.)

Although, it's too much to tell me to calm down.

It's annoying for me to be in high spirits about something that is normal to everyone. I strive to warn myself about this.

Hiyo: Have a seat, then. I hope it suits your tastes.

Then, carefully...

Sasamaru: Thanks for the food.

The three: Thanks for the food.

I am unable to contain my exhilarated feelings. The words somehow become a group yell.

Sasamaru: (...This is kinda pleasant.)

I bite my lips at the welling-up feelings.
To be able to eat meals with someone is just...

Sasamaru: (Ah...but, is this okay?)

I have no idea about good manners when eating together with others.

I might be overthinking it way too much. While being nervous about being rude to everyone, I take a piece of the food to the mouth.

Sasamaru: Uh...

It's enough to blow away these worries of mine into another universe.

This is delicious!

Surprised, I look at Hiyo. Our eyes meet.

Hiyo: Ah...

Then, Hiyo makes an uncomfortable face for some reason.
...Was she looking at me the whole time?

Sasamaru: (That's right. You do worry about someone's reaction when they're eating your dishes.)

The other two might be used to it, but it's understandable that she's worried about my reaction.

I'm bad with these.
I'm not attentive enough.

Hiyo: Is...is it not to your tastes?

Sasamaru: Not at all!

In panic, I overreact a bit, but I convey my honest feelings.

Sasamaru: It's very good. I'm sure everyone who eats this will say the same thing.

To not control your voice in a conversation is proof of being awkward in human relationships.
...Apparently.

Harutsuge: Just look at the menu.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Of course it suits your tastes.

Although I'm tilting my head in puzzlement, Harutsuge isn't saying anything else.

Araragi: Listen, Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: Yes?

Araragi: There are girls who work hard behind the scenes, you know? I'd be happy if you could sense that.

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah, yeah.

What does she mean? Is Hiyo secretly learning how to cook?

Yes, this isn't a meal you can make after one day or two of study.

I know this because I used to cook in the past.
You can only make this flavor after countless experiences, from picking the soup vegetables and choosing the ingredients to actually cooking them.

Sasamaru: I underestimated you.

A hardworking person is always worthy of respect, no matter who it is.

Araragi: Hmm.

But Araragi is tilting her head, as if she was a bit perplexed.

Araragi: It's tasty, but...something's different?

Sasamaru: Eh?

What? Am I overlooking something?

Araragi: You see, it's not just the cooking skill that's outstanding.

Harutsuge: ...Thickheaded as always.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Hiyo: This is normal. Please do not mind, honey.

Sasamaru: O-okay.

So, I'm really missing something?

Harutsuge: If Hiyo-kun says so, I don't mind, though.

Hiyo: You two, thank you very much for keeping company with my selfish request.

Araragi: It's nothing. Our rule is that the one on duty decides the menu.

Menu? She said that a while ago. What's with the menu?

This breakfast menu is pure Japanese style.
I craved for Japanese cuisine in the past. These are all dishes I wanted to eat.

Harutsuge: We were supposed to have toast today. I was the one on duty.

Sasamaru: Huh? Isn't Hiyo on duty today?

Harutsuge: ...Hiyo-kun, sorry for asking you to be on duty.

After sighing at my reaction, Harutsuge changes the topic.

Hiyo: No. After all, it was something I asked for.

Harutsuge: So, these are the Japanese commodities that he once said. But it appears he didn't notice at all, even after you practiced night after night.

Hiyo: Ah, h-hey...

Harutsuge: It's really a waste of effort.

A brief time after I tilt my head...

Araragi: Hmmmm, tomorrow I'm on duty~. Everyone, do you have any requests?

The air freezes the moment Araragi says this.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...What's wrong?

Hiyo: I don't mind...as long as I don't need stomach medicine.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. That's not something to be called a meal. It's rude to the meal.

Hiyo: At least...if you at least realized that pregelatinized starch is hard for the human body to digest...

Harutsuge: No, that's not the issue here. It's not colored, but it turns into blue food, something that practically doesn't exist in the natural world. That's not a human feat.

Araragi: You two, how cruel~. I'm working hard, you hear?

Ah.
Which reminds me, Araragi can't cook.

Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to eat her homemade cooking, but I remember hearing about it.

They're half-joking, but still, that's a really harsh assessment.

But I see everyone is working hard in turns.

Sasamaru: How is the duty order? Let me be on duty next time.

Hiyo: By no means. Honey, don't worry about the housework. Please enjoy your school life.

Sasamaru: No, I'm living in this dorm too. I can't do that.

It's reasonable that I do what they're doing.

Hiyo: ...Then, honey. I'll take your place when you're on duty.

Sasamaru: That won't solve anything.

Hiyo: But...

Harutsuge: What's the problem? He's saying he's going to do it. It's his responsibility, of course.

I think so, too.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: You don't have to worry like that. You might not want to eat my cooking, but my meals aren't that bad.

I can take any ingredient...
and make it good enough to be edible.

Hiyo: No! Honey, I really want to eat your meals.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Aah, I mean, you have just arrived. You may do it after familiarizing yourself a bit more.

Harutsuge: So, your plan is to pretend to give time and wait to gradually undertake everything, eh.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Weeeeell, that's what Suu-kun is saying. This is everyone's dorm, so, let's be fair, okay?

Hiyo: Understood.

Harutsuge: So, you judged that if you become stubborn now, it will make Suu-kun lose face later, eh.

Araragi: Okay, okay. There, there~

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Ah, but the order makes one lap with me, Hiyo-chan, and Harutsuge-chan. So, tomorrow will be a good place to leave off.

Sasamaru: I don't mind. This is a perfect opportunity for me to familiarize myself with this dorm.

Harutsuge: Good. The unlucky day has distanced itself. We should be grateful.

Araragi: Boo.

Sasamaru: I'll start being on duty tomorrow, then.

Hiyo: Honey, I'm looking forward to what kind of meal you'll cook.

Sasamaru: But don't keep your hopes up. I can't make anything elegant like Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: But I can make something good enough not to shame myself...I think.

Sasamaru: Just say if it turns out bad. I'll work hard to improve.

Harutsuge: Don't worry. Even if you make a garbage of a meal, there will be a certain someone who'll eat everything up while saying, "delicious, delicious."

Araragi: Okay, okay. There, there~

Harutsuge: Hehe.

Araragi: Hey, Harutsuge-chan. Why are you blushing?

Harutsuge: You're still too young to understand this feeling.

Araragi: I don't think it's an age issue. I wonder if this is my imagination.

Sasamaru: Please tell me if there are other tasks you're on duty. I want to get used to this dorm's rules.

To become a member of this dorm, I must first carry out my duties as one of its members.

Hiyo: Well then, every week, there's the duty system of preparing the food, cleaning the room everyone uses, and fastening the doors. And we decided that everyone uses the same room as the bedroom. These are the general rules we've decided on in our dormitory.

Sasamaru: Got it.

The same bedroom. This feels like a school trip.

But in this case, the male that is me sleeps in a different room.

Sasamaru: Is there anything else? Throwing the garbage, laundry, and night patrol. I'll do anything. I alone will undertake anything that needs a man's help.

Harutsuge: I'm uncertain about that laundry.

Sasamaru: What? I can do laundry too, all right?

Harutsuge: This isn't a matter of can or can't. I just want to say that a pervert targeting our underwear has entered our dormitory.

...Ah.

{\i1}Excluding me, everyone here is a girl.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Sorry. I'll do only my own laundry.

Hiyo: But I could do your laundry too, honey.

Harutsuge: I think you simply want to do that.

"I'll start doing what I can."

I'm feeling at ease now that I have decided that.
Rather, I'm serious now.

Sasamaru: (So, I must not miss my chance.)

I lightly slap my cheeks and keep myself together.

I'll try not to miss my chance to get closer to everyone, the chance to approach them.

It's all right.
We'll be together in the dorms and at school. There will be countless chances.

For the time being, it's time to go to school.
After thinking this, I immediately...

...return to the living room, but...

Sasamaru: A...ahh.

Only Hiyo is here.

Hiyo: Oh my, honey.

Sasamaru: ...Where's everyone?

Hiyo: They...have some business to take care of today.

Sasamaru: ...Sure.

Hiyo is vague in consideration for me, but it looks like they went ahead of us.

Sasamaru: There's nothing we can do, then.

I make a smile.

I can tell Hiyo is feeling relieved.

Yes, I can't lose heart with this.
I have just started.

Hiyo: If it's all right with you, how about we go together?

Sasamaru: Yes, gladly.

I'm about to say "thank you," but this isn't quite right.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, do you always go to school at this time?

For someone who always acts with time to spare, she's barely on time to go to school.

Hiyo: T-that's right. There are times I go at this hour too.

That's a strangely roundabout expression.
It's like, "I don't want to lie, but it's a bit hard to be honest."

Hiyo: I also have to close up the doors.

Sasamaru: Ah, that's right.

We have separated rooms but only one entrance.
There's no housemother. To close the doors is the responsibility of the one on duty.

This is included in the "boarding system to develop independence."
...Nah, that's not possible.

She's just being attentive and waited for me, someone who just arrived at the dorm and doesn't know about the environment.

Sasamaru: (Or rather, I should have realized this.)

I've just arrived. It's natural that I don't know anything. There's nothing to be ashamed of.

The important is that I must not forget that "there's someone being considerate of me."

Sasamaru: Sorry for all this.

Hiyo: Hmm? About what?

After looking at Hiyo, who's taking all this consideration as something natural, I can feel my insensitivity piercing my body.

In the past, Harutsuge often pointed this out, as she did a while ago.

"I am 'thickheaded'."

Sasamaru: I'll help you. What should I do?

I'll be simply troubling Hiyo if I keep doing things slowly.

I'll observe how she works and learn about my environment one day sooner.

This is the only way to repay the person worrying about me.

Sasamaru: (Or rather...)

Oh, no.
Hiyo's nickname is "Miss Perfect."

She's from a high-class family but still flawless with household duties. Even if things turn into a quarrel where both shout out each other's flaws, she has so few flaws that it doesn't amount to a quarrel.

After closing up most of the doors, she closes the only one remaining, the front door.

Hiyo: Well then, let's go.

Sasamaru: Yes.

I'll watch out from now on.
No, I must keep myself together.

And to help her, I must learn how to get ready to go to school as soon as possible.

Sasamaru: (I must observe and learn all this from Hiyo.)

I'm still ways behind.
Originally, {\i1}I was late in life studies compared to everyone.{\i0}

Otherwise, I won't accomplish this.

I won't carry out my will.

Sasamaru: (I'll learn from you, lady Hiyo.)

Kumigami Hiyo.
Our childhood friend.

And also the noble lady of {\i1}the{\i0} honored Kumigami household.

This might sound like a sudden leap, but this is a certain fact.

The Kumigami household was originally a medical family with a long history, with many noted doctors.

Her grandfather is praised as an authority in the medical community. In short, she's a genuine noble girl in the medical world.

Hiyo: Ah, honey. Your finger.

Sasamaru: Aah. I guess I got cut somewhere.

I look at it. My fingertip is cut, and there's a bit of blood coming out.
I didn't realize until she pointed it out.

Sasamaru: Something like this you can simply ignore, and it'll soon...

Hiyo: That's no good. May I treat it?

After gently grabbing my hand, she checks the wound, skillfully disinfects it, and puts a band-aid on it.

Hiyo: And it's done.

She prefers a nurse role like this rather than a doctor one.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Hiyo: Don't mind it.

Then, she sweetly smiles.

This elegant smile always brings me peace of mind.
She really hasn't changed.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: What's the matter?

I'm reminiscing the past while staring at the fingertip with the band-aid when Hiyo curiously asks me this.

Sasamaru: Well, I was thinking, "it's just like back then."

Hiyo: Just like back then?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Like, "Hiyo really doesn't change."

Being very attentive, Hiyo always helped me like this.

Hiyo: Is that so?

Sasamaru: Of course, I'm not saying you haven't grown up. It's just...

...I'm happy that she hasn't changed.

Sasamaru: Well...Hiyo, your good points haven't changed at all.

After hearing this, Hiyo seems delighted.

Hiyo: I too am happy to care for you again, honey.

And the finest smile appears.

Hiyo: Honey, taking care of you is my duty. Don't be afraid to request anything you want, okay?

Sasamaru: Aren't you exaggerating a bit?

I know this is our long-awaited re-encounter, and she's being considerate of me, who just came to school, but...

Hiyo: No, it's not an exaggeration. It's my purpose in life.

...Hmmmm.

I was always an inattentive and imprudent person. And, unable to ignore, Hiyo indirectly supported me.

For that reason, we made this strange relationship long ago.

Sasamaru: But I can't keep bothering you forever, Hiyo.

I'm happy that our relationship hasn't changed, but not regarding this single matter.

As Harutsuge said, people "grow."
But I'll lose face if I remain forever like I was in those days.

Sasamaru: But you won't be able to enjoy your every day if you keep worrying about me, right? You can simply keep doing as you've been doing.

Hiyo: But...

No, don't look sad like that.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you're having it hard too, right?

To begin with, I'm the one intruding into everyone's lives.

Hiyo: No, not at all.

Sasamaru: Is...is that so?

After greatly denying it like that, Hiyo says "ah" as if she had noticed something.

Hiyo: Honey, you don't have to worry more than necessary. Just enjoy your school life. I am merely helping you from behind the scenes.

From her words and way of speaking, I can feel her consideration as to not become a burden.

Sasamaru: More than necessary?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...I'm counting on you, then.

Hiyo: Yes!

Hiyo displays a happy smile.

But I must not rely on this smile.
I must keep myself together.

Sasamaru: Do it in moderation. In moderation.

Hiyo: Yes, in moderation.

Maybe it's my imagination. I feel that her "moderation" scale is quite different from mine.

But looking at the happy Hiyo, I can't say that.

Sasamaru: (She really likes to help.)

...Our former relationship.
In the end, I'm wrong for being so pathetic.

But it'll come to nothing if my presence obstructs Hiyo's school life.

I must work hard.

I wonder if the day when I can be considerate like Hiyo will come.

I look up. The sky is clear blue.

Sasamaru: This sky really feels like I've come to the mountains.

Hiyo: Is that so?

Sasamaru: Well, I don't dislike the faint feeling of the city's white sky.

The mountains have their good points, and so does the city.

The city's sky is not clear like this. But the sky blurred with a mild white, like milk softly suspended on a bitter coffee, is not bad at all.

Hiyo: The city's sky is white due to the many pollutants.

Wow, Hiyo-san spoiled it.

Hiyo: Ah...I-I'm sorry.

This aspect too hasn't changed.

Hiyo doesn't have bad intentions, but how do I say...she has this precise temperament toward things.

Hiyo: Well...U-umm...

But it appears she has changed in the time we didn't see each other.

As if trying to clear a bad reputation, Hiyo strives to make a "seemingly" example.

Hiyo: Y-your face now, honey...yes. It's just like the face of a patient in the examination room after my father mutters: "Huh? How strange."

But Hiyo-san magnificently fails.
Or rather, you have muttered something outrageous, Dr. Kumigami.

Hiyo: P-please wait. Give me another chance.

She was born into a family of doctors. Her father is a renowned surgeon.

With the noble reason of "I want to save even one more patient," he's a genius surgeon not affiliated with any specific medical institution, actively going to anywhere in the world where he's called.
...Apparently.

Hiyo: Err...honey, your face is like that of a patient when my father says "I'll cure this illness, without fail" and makes extra emphasis on the "without fail" part.

But I guess he's quite mischievous.

He's always traveling around the world, so, I've never met him. I only know him from Hiyo...I mean, the feeling of "I think I know" is extremely strong.

Hiyo's grandfather also traveled around the world and treated his patients like this, but now he's retired, working behind the scenes and striving to develop the medical world.

I think Hiyo shouldn't be so hard on herself in this aspect.

There's quite the distance from the dorms to the school.

Maybe it's because of this, but when I'm heading to school, I feel like a person of yore who goes from his private house deep in the mountains to the city for shopping.

Hiyo: By the way, how is your impression of the school?

Sasamaru: Well, it has been nothing but surprises. The entrance exam wasn't here, so, this is my first time actually seeing the school.

And, despite going to the entrance exam motivated, I finished it with a strange feeling.

But if there's one thing that I'm sure of...

Sasamaru: I've always wished to come here. I was anxiously looking forward to the day I would step into the Yumemidori Academy.

Sasamaru: So, now I'm filled with a sense of accomplishment...and everything here feels dazzling.

I'm in high spirits. So much that I can let out these embarrassing words.

Hiyo: Hehe, very good. I'm glad this is an enjoyable environment for you, honey.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, aren't you pleased with this school?

Bothered by her roundabout expression, I ask.

Hiyo: Not at all. {\i1}The other day, this school has become the best environment for me.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...?

I wonder what she means.

Hiyo: To the best of my ability, I'll help so that this place becomes the best environment for you too, honey.

Sasamaru: Well, I mean...

Please don't mind me.

This is what I want to say, but it's unavoidable that I keep troubling her, since there's much I don't know.

Sasamaru: Sorry for bothering you.

I started going to school yesterday. I'm quite behind everyone, who are here since the school entrance ceremony.

I don't have to mention Harutsuge, who's one year older than me, but Araragi, who's one year younger, came to this school half a year earlier than me.

I'm actually a new student, and they're my "seniors", my senpai.

Sasamaru: Hiyo-senpai. Please take care of me.

She's my "little sister" and my "senior." This is a kinda strange relationship.

Hiyo: Stop that, honey. Even if heaven and earth were turned upside down, I can't become your senior.

Sasamaru: ...?

An increasingly strange expression.

Sasamaru: (Maybe it's because...we're the same age.)

If that's the case, we'll never become seniors and juniors, but...
Hiyo too knows I don't mean that.

Well, I should simply think of Hiyo as my senior.

And after a short while, we finally arrive at the school building.

But, yesterday, I was so engulfed by the place's atmosphere that I didn't have time to be surprised.

I close my eyes and place my hand on my chest.
When the ancient history of this country comes to mind...
there's an elegance, like assembling each one of the landscapes appearing in it.

Its appearance, like an ancient city, overwhelms all who behold it.

I wonder what everyone thought the first time they came to this school.

The happiness of entering their desired school, and the chest's throbbing of the first day.
I wonder if everyone was excited about the days that would soon start while sharing these feelings with each other.

But I think: "I can't do that."

Those who entered along with me disappeared. Maybe a known senior might say "welcome" to me.

Harutsuge said this to Hiyo.
Harutsuge and Hiyo said this to Araragi.

...There's no point in saying this.
After taking this long to come to school, I feel like, "what am I thinking?"

Jeez, I'm always asking too much. That's why I'm still a kid.

Hiyo: Congratulations, honey.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Congratulations on entering the school.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Welcome to the Yumemidori Academy.

...The Yumemidori Academy I longed for.

Everything about this school where I'm finally able to visit is dazzling.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

And in front of me, Hiyo is also dazzling.

So dazzling that I can't keep my eyes open, but I also don't want to close them. This is the strange feeling I'm having.

Hiyo: Long time no see. I am Kumigami Hiyo, I'll be your classmate. Do you still remember me?

Sasamaru: O...o-of course. How can I forget!?

Hiyo: Hehe, I'm honored, honey.

She's starting over for me.

Hiyo is doing for me the "entry with everyone" that I couldn't do.

And also the "re-encounter at the entrance ceremony."

Sasamaru: ...Thanks.

My chest is full. The tip of my nose is hot.
My voice is stiff.

Sasamaru: Please treat me well.

Still, I raise my face...
in order to firmly look with my own eyes at the grown-up childhood friend that I "reunited" with.

Sasamaru: Again, take care of me, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Me too, please treat me well, honey.

"The Four Noble Ones" are four plants.
The "orchid," the "bamboo," the "chrysanthemum," and the "plum blossom." The nobles of the four seasons.

On this day, at this time, at this place...

...the summer's "bamboo" and the autumn's "chrysanthemum" have reunited.

Hiyo and I are the same age.
Harutsuge is one year older than me.
Araragi is one year younger than me.

But we are here in the same class.

Including this year, the previous year, and the one before, it doesn't matter if the total amount of students is four with the reason of "good harvest" or if it's only one student with the reason of "bad harvest."

The result of combining the plus from the new students and the minus from the graduates is us four here.

This school crams all the students from the three years into a single class.

They divide the classes by courses and not by school year nor by grades.

Onitake-sensei: Hmm...

The one releasing the air of an exceptional person is Onitake-sensei, the one in charge of our painting course.

I can even feel like she's somewhat different from a normal person, with the appearance of an emissary from another world.

Everyone goes silent with the teacher's arrival.

Onitake-sensei: Who'd have thought you would reach here alive.

These are the teacher's first words right after arriving at the desk and looking over at us.

Onitake-sensei: Hahaha. Looks like I underestimated your abilities a little.

Sasamaru: Teacher?

Onitake-sensei: But this will end. It will end. Foolish adventurers. You shall know about true terror in these lands.

Harutsuge: Aah, so, she's like that today.

Sasamaru: ...?

Onitake-sensei closes her mouth and is intently examining the situation, as if glaring at us.

Onitake-sensei: ...

Sasamaru: Umm...teacher?

Onitake-sensei: ...Don't you wanna say, "you don't know unless you try"?

Sasamaru: Huh?

Onitake-sensei: Don't you wanna say, "you don't know unless you try"!?

Sasamaru: (What does...she mean?)

The teacher's behavior sure is deep.
And in order to search for meaning in her words, I focus all my nerves on her speech.

Araragi: You don't know unless you try!

Onitake-sensei: Hahahaha! Interesting! Then, show me the last struggle of your puny existences!

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun is so kind.

...What?
They understand her words?

Araragi: Well, the class won't start unless someone says that.

Onitake-sensei: Then, everyone. It's time for the lesson. You shall feel your powerlessness up to your marrow.

Sasamaru: (Urgh!)

I knew it. I won't easily overcome my late start.

They're in contact with the teacher's words for a far longer time than me.
No doubt that what they obtained from this is steadily making them grow.

For the students, the supreme words given by the teacher are the treasure of a lifetime.

...So, I'm the only one left behind.

Sasamaru: (I can't keep falling behind!)

I must at least try to catch up with them.

Hiyo: Honey, is something the matter?

Realizing I'm clenching my teeth, Hiyo quietly whispers.

Sasamaru: Well, I was thinking that I'm the only one left behind...
ah, sorry. Don't mind me. Let's focus on the lesson.

That's right. If I keep holding back my senior on top of that, I'll lose my right to take this class.

Hiyo: Lesson? It hasn't started yet, okay?

Sasamaru: What are you saying? The teacher's lesson has already started, right?

Hiyo: ...? Yes, with the meaning of homeroom, sure.

Sasamaru: I have no moment to lose! I am already being tested!

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: ...Honey, I'm very sorry to say this when you're so focused, but...

Sasamaru: What is it?

Hiyo: What is the meaning of the Japanese wording "oitekebori" (leaving behind)? There, honey.

"There, honey."
This is our signal from when we were little.

If I say "there, Hiyo" after a question, then I'm passing on to her. If it's the other way around, she's passing the question to me.

Sasamaru: The wording "oitekebori" has its roots in a pond's name at Edo Honjo.

I answer with my spinal reflex.

Sasamaru: If you fish at this pond, a voice from the water will say, "leave them, leave them." This voice won't stop until all the fish are returned.
This is one of the seven mysteries of Honjo.

Hiyo: Yes, thank you very much.

Sasamaru: You're welcome.

Hiyo: Were you able to relax?

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: Well, it's better to listen to Onitake-sensei's class with a sense of distance. I'm afraid you were misunderstanding this, honey.

Misunderstanding?
What does this mean?

Sasamaru: (Right! This is her advice as a senior!)

"If you focus too much, you won't be able to see even what's in front of you."
"When listening to important words, you can understand them better if you relax a little."

Sasamaru: (So, that's what you mean, right, Hiyo!?)

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo is making a sour expression.

I'm sorry.
You want to say, "you stupid, you can't even understand this if someone doesn't tell you," right?

Really, I'm still very inexperienced.

Sasamaru: I'll take it to heart.

I wonder if I can become like them one day.

Will someone like me ever reach their territory?

Hiyo: Honey, please relax.

Sasamaru: Thanks, Hiyo. It...might take time, but I'll for sure arrive at the peak someday.

Hiyo: Ahh...

And then, the second night comes.

Sasamaru: (...So, this is my bed from today on.)

The room is still empty because there's a limit on the luggage I can bring with me, but...

I'm deeply emotive after looking around the room assigned to me.

I didn't have one before.
A few years ago, I obtained a space called "my room."
A place I can call "my room."

Sasamaru: (And this time...I'll add "as a student from the Yumemidori Academy.")

I feel like I inhaled fresh air, filling my chest.

Well...
I'll lay down the futon and start preparing to sleep...
wait, where's my futon?

I open the closet, but it isn't there.

Sasamaru: (Everyone is already sleeping, right?)

I wonder if it's okay to visit a girl's room at this time to ask where the futon is.

"With a relationship like ours, they won't mind."
I'd be good if I could say that.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Whoa!

I jump at the sudden voice coming from behind me.

Hiyo: Sorry for surprising you. I have called you several times now.

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. I was in deep thought.

Or rather...

Sasamaru: T...that's a cute pajama.

Hiyo: ...T-thank you very much.

Her gestures, along with her blushing so much that I can tell even in this darkness, are also cute.

Hiyo: Err, ahem.

As if pulling herself together, Hiyo pauses for a moment.

Hiyo: Honey, your bedroom is over here. I'll show you.

Sasamaru: Wait...huh? This isn't my room?

Hiyo: This is your room.

Sasamaru: So, it isn't here?

Hiyo: No. This is a room for you to use as your personal room. The bedroom is separated.

So, they have rooms to spare?

Sasamaru: No, it's okay. I'm thankful for simply having a whole room for me.

Certainly, there will be spare rooms with only the four of us in this large dormitory. But I can't live in such a luxury.

Hiyo: Is...that so? From the conversation this morning, I thought your desire was to follow this dorm's customs. My apologies for being intrusive.

Sasamaru: Ah, so, that's what you mean. Sorry, sorry.

So, she's here because I said that.

Sasamaru: If that's the case, I'll leave it to you.

Hiyo: Yes. I'll guide you, then.

Hiyo: This is the room.

Sasamaru: Err...this is the...

Hiyo: Yes. It's this dormitory's bedroom.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Honey, I was thinking of preparing a room exclusively for you, but your wish was for a lifestyle following the dorm's rules, so...

Yeah, I did say that, but...

This is...

Hiyo: Sorry. Both of them seem to be sleeping already. Is it fine beside me tonight?

No, there's no 'fine' here.

Sasamaru: Look here, as a fundamental problem...

Hiyo: Yes. It was completely my blunder. I didn't think the two of them would go to bed early today, of all days.

Hiyo: When I finished my errands and returned, both were already sleeping. It's really a fundamental problem. If only I had checked it sooner...

Sasamaru: No, it's not that.

Hiyo: Ah...so, beside me is no good.

Sasamaru: No, also not that.

Hiyo: Then, what is it?

What are those innocent eyes about?

No, no, no, this is the problem. This is the problem, right?

Sasamaru: I'm a {\i1}boy{\i0}. And you are {\i1}girls{\i0}.

Hiyo: Yes...that's correct.

Hey, hey. What's this course of events about?

Sasamaru: Err...well. Yes, I did say to let me follow the rules. I'm grateful for your immediate consideration, but...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: But I kinda have a problem with sleeping together with girls.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: You understand...right?

Hiyo: ...

I wonder what she's thinking.

Hiyo: I was sure that was your objective.

Sasamaru: Hey!!

Hiyo: Eh, but I said at breakfast that "everyone uses the same bedroom." I thought this was your wish.

...Huh?

Hiyo: Well then, every week, there's the duty system of preparing the food, cleaning the room everyone uses, and fastening the doors. And we decided that everyone uses the same room as the bedroom. These are the general rules we've decided on in our dormitory.

Sasamaru: Got it.

She's right.

I was convinced that "me, the man, would sleep alone." But if you take my words at face value, that makes sense.

Hiyo: D-did I get the wrong idea?

Sasamaru: Yes, there sure is enough circumstantial evidence. I guess I have no room for objecting.

And also, it's something I wished for.

Hiyo: Honey, you don't like sleeping together with girls?

Sasamaru: Hey, what's that question about? Isn't that a bit unfair?

See, what you're saying means...
Right? Get a clue!

Hiyo: Hehe.

After appealing with her eyes, Hiyo suddenly makes a smile.

Hiyo: Honey, you are feeling awkward, aren't you? Sorry for not being attentive.

Sasamaru: No, it's not...

Hiyo: You may slowly familiarize yourself. Right, Mr. Wolf?

Strangely, she's inviting me to the futon.

A girl pulling my hand and leading me to a futon. What paradise is this?

Hiyo: May we decide the place tomorrow? I'll persuade them to accept the place you want, honey.

No, wait. Won't they kill me when they wake up?

Sasamaru: T-then, let me at least sleep near the wall!

I'll be between Hiyo and the wall this way.
This is the best and the ideal choice under these circumstances.

Hiyo knows I'll sleep in this room. And she's like a little sister to me.

Which means...!

Hiyo: No. Honey, it's preposterous for you to sleep by the wall.

Sasamaru: I don't know what's your standard to call it preposterous, but this is the best position now.

Hiyo: T-then, at least sleep beside Araragi-san.

What do you mean by "at least"!?

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san is at the opposite end. And Araragi-san is already sleeping next to her. The only place left now is between Araragi-san and me.

No, look, I'd be happy if you could let me sleep at the edge. But the core of the conversation is off course, so, Hiyo's not quite yielding.

...And the compromise plan is...this place.

Sasamaru: (Beside Araragi...huh.)

I look down at Araragi, sleeping peacefully.

After looking at her, I think: "Ah, it's really Araragi."

Araragi longs for the one who helped her long ago.

When talking about "him," she's always excited somewhat, so, it's hard to accurately picture his character.
If I can combine the fragments of information and create an individual...

It's surely a being worthy of being called "knight in shining armor."

In the past, Araragi had almost drowned in a river.

It was before we met her.
She was really young and was apparently engulfed by the large river that had turned into a den of raging waves and violent streams due to the prolonged heavy rains.

At that time, there was someone who gallantly jumped into the river in order to save her.

This person is the "knight in shining armor."

He managed to save her despite being tossed around by the savage river's currents.

Since then, she sees him as a hero and looks at him as a role model.
These feelings have already surpassed adoration and have become almost a creed.

For her, his perpetually honored existence is indeed that of a God.

I'll try to depict this character.

According to her, he has a splendid mustache...
and prefers the night.

He starts his activities as if celebrating the world covered in darkness.

Activities...
that is, a "hunt."

He's a hunter.
Dislikes groups and always acts alone.
Isolated and brave.

What we must pay attention to are his remarkable body abilities.
His hearing and smell are twice more powerful than that of an ordinary person. He can easily cross over walls five times his height.

He strides across the night city. A wandering hunter who pursues his prey.

He said this:
"Even while sleeping, a man must not show his back to others."

And he also said this:
"Even while sleeping, a man must always wear an armor on his heart."

After hearing this, the man I imagine is...

But this story continues.

The knight in shining armor...
a man of free and wild spirit who hates being interfered by others.
He doesn't even meet an acquaintance. A man who loves solitude.

In order to jump at his prey at any moment, the hunter always walks on his toes.

His eyes glitter at night. His tongue doesn't taste sweet food.
And his tail stands erect when he's in a good mood.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

A question mark has appeared here.

Sasamaru: (Huh, huh?)

The knight in shining armor...
a nocturnal hunter with sharp claws as his weapons.

In his hands, the dreadful paws called metacarpal pad, digital pad, carpal pad, and footpad.

Stroking his jaw makes him purr, and he becomes enraptured after sniffing catnip...

Sasamaru: (Wait a minute.)

I always think this after listening so far.

Sasamaru: (It's a cat, right?)

//text on screen
Meow~

Yes, I think this every time.

Sasamaru: (No matter how I look at it, this "knight in shining armor" is a cat, right?)

To prefer the night means, in other words, nocturnal habits.

By nature, cats are more active the closer it is to late at night.
This is their period of hunting, after all.

They don't need to hunt after becoming a pet cat, so, they end up active together with the owner's time schedule.

Also, they have better hearing and smell than humans. They have the leg strength to easily jump over fences five times their height.
And also, the cat's keenness and nimbleness that everyone knows.

They hate interference, behaving freely and uncontrollably.

They ignore even acquaintances because, for a cat, to look at each other means to pick a fight.
So, for neighboring cats to get along, they have the implicit rule of ignoring each other.

Unable to feel sweet food is because they're carnivores by nature. They evolved without the necessity to feel sweetness.
There are sweet plants, but there aren't sweet meats.

Summing up, no matter how I think about it...

Sasamaru: (It's a cat, all right.)

Worshiping this cat as a God, Araragi is putting into practice what she has learned from its way of life.

Sasamaru: ...

Look at her. This is the sleeping posture of a girl at the peak of her beauty.

Peak of her beauty or, bluntly speaking, a farewell landmine. Well, even I don't know what I'm talking about. It's like, "there's a huge misunderstanding here."

I look at her once more.

Even the most favorable interpretation of this scene will say this isn't even a cat.

Thinking normally, she's a middle-aged man.

Sasamaru: This is a...middle-aged man, right?

I mutter my truly naive thoughts when...

Araragi: Don't say middle-aged man...Zzz...

She completely denies me.
While still asleep.

Sasamaru: But you're a middle-aged man.

Araragi: Don't say middle-aged man. Zzz.

Yes, even sound asleep, she doesn't forget to deny.

This is her unique world view, nicknamed "Araragi Rule."

It is said that the origin is the wise saying left by the knight in shining armor, who stayed at the city for a while after saving her.

The man's wise saying: "Do not show your back to others, even while sleeping."

"I'll show my belly, then," Araragi interpreted.
"But my tummy hurts when it's cold, so, I'll always have a stomach band ready," she concluded.

And thus, this sublime form.
This is the "Araragi Rule."

I frankly want to say, "the one most disrespectful to the knight in shining armor is you!" But this is her behavior as a faithful believer, so, we can't rudely jab at her.

Sasamaru: (What an unfortunate girl.)

She's really unfortunate, despite being a very good girl.

And so, Araragi is a one-size-larger "middle-aged man."

Araragi: Don't say middle-aged man. Zzz.

Regarding this matter, Araragi even reads the opponent's mind.

Sasamaru: Though, the pajama itself is cute.

Hiyo: According to Araragi-san: "I was careless and wasn't properly equipped, so, I'll give all I got and fully equip myself tonight in case I happen to meet him tomorrow."

What an unfortunate girl.
She's really unfortunate.
I'm the one feeling embarrassed now. It's so unfortunate that it's too late to jab like this.

This is the girl called Araragi.

In the end...
I decide to sleep in this room.

I don't understand why Hiyo insisted on "at least sleep beside Araragi," but I know she has no bad faith. I can feel that she's "trying to make me happy."

I wonder why she's so fixated with Araragi when there's also Harutsuge.

Well, in any case...
from the innermost bed,
it's Harutsuge,
Araragi,
me,
and Hiyo, in this order.

I'll try lying face up for now.

I have the habit of sleeping with the left part of my head down, but there's the possibility of this developing into an unpleasant situation if Araragi turns over.

And thus, I close my eyes while facing the ceiling, but...

Sasamaru: (I can't sleep.)

And I'm tired, actually.

I didn't sleep yesterday.
And Hiyo must be the same.

I made her keep me company. I have no right to say, "I'm tired."

But there's no doubt that my body wants to rest.
My brain is more awake than necessary due to the long time staying awake. I'm not quite falling asleep.

Sasamaru: (Maybe it's because I'm not used to sleeping facing up.)

I can't quite part with this ingrained custom of sleeping position.

This is like a going-to-bed signal to the body.
But sleeping with the left side down is mistaking my priorities.

Sasamaru: (Then, I'll at least put the right side down.)

This might not be the problem, but it might be more effective than facing up.
Probably.

Hiyo is sleeping on my right side, but that's okay.
For me, Hiyo is like a little sister.

A little...sister...

Sasamaru: (They say that one day, the brother realizes his sister has suddenly changed from a child and into an adult.)

I feel this reasoning is more of a father than a brother, but that's another story.

I'm amazed by her growth. Like a sister to me, she is the girl that I re-encountered after a long time.

I don't feel the "long time" as much as the other two. Maybe it's because I kept exchanging letters with her.

I could picture her in my mind while I was writing the letter's reply. She's exactly like she was in the past.

Also, perhaps due to her physique somehow retaining youthfulness, her impression hasn't changed that much from before, but...

Sasamaru: (She...really is a girl.)

I'm astonished by her growth.
Now that I'm facing her, the difference becomes faithfully clear.

Sasamaru: (This is bad.)

Badbadbadbadbad.

I cover my head with the pillow.

(Sasamaru: But, in this position...)

This is no time to say: "I can't sleep face-down."

Whether I face left or right, it's the same.
There are nothing but girls here. I'm sleeping while being surrounded by young girls.

At this moment...

...there's the sensation of a soft arm touching the back of my neck.

Sasamaru: (Wha!)

T-this arm is from...
from this position, I can't confirm with my eyes, but judging from the pressure on the right part of my neck, it's correct to think that there's an arm extending from my right side, since I'm lying face-down.

And, if memory serves me right, the one positioning herself to my right is Araragi.

One of the Four Noble Ones who governs the spring, Yumeno Araragi.

Sasamaru: (What? What on earth is happening!?)

Did I wake her up with the momentum of lying face-down?

Is she half asleep? Or is she clinging to me thinking I'm Hiyo?

Don't tell me...

Nervously, I look to the right side of my obstructed vision.

Araragi: Zzz

She's sleeping soundly.

The mystery is solved.
Araragi's arm hit me when she turned over.

No, I'm not disappointed, okay? Really. Hey, you, don't get me wrong.

Sasamaru: (Err...)

I-I'll simply move her arm back and pretend nothing happened.

Araragi: Hmm...

Sasamaru: (Oh, no...)

Now I really woke her...

Araragi: Bankprez...

Bankprez!?

Araragi: Thanks for saving me when I was drowning...

Thank you very much for explaining.
But that's sleep talk, right? Admiring while you're sleeping, right? I'm so relieved.

So, that's the name of Araragi's adored one.

Well, I'll simply move her arm...

Araragi: Ah...no, you don't have to carry me in your arms...

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

Sasamaru: (Wha-what the!?)

I can't move!?

She isn't putting strength because she's asleep. ...Or so I thought. Her slender arms have a strength beyond imagination.

Or rather, I'm locked.

Sasamaru: H-hey, wait, Araragi-san?

What is this?
A vise?
I can't move at all.

Sasamaru: ARARAGI-SAN.

She might wake up if I raise my voice, but she won't release me unless I wake her up. While I'm feeling an extreme contradiction about this situation, my throat lets out a strangling voice.

Araragi: Bankprez...

Sasamaru: Huh?

Araragi: Sleeveless shirt.

I don't have that! It's a cat, remember!? Wait, what sleep talk is that anyway!?

Araragi: What's the password?

P-password? A password now? Like "long live the king"?

And you'll release me if I say the password? Is this such a system?

Sasamaru: ...

At this moment, I call to mind all the words I can come up with.

Sasamaru: Stomach band.

I glimpse at Araragi's appearance, and then, I whisper, as if pouring it on her ear.

Araragi: Boo, boo. The correct answer is "watch baseball with beer and green soybeans."

The hell I know that!!

That's why you're a middle-aged man! A perfect middle-aged man! Explain to me what kind of chemical change turned a cat into a middle-aged man!!

And as a result...
Araragi is putting strength in her arms, and I'm being pulled toward her.

Sasamaru: Hey, wai...!

She's coiling herself around me.

Hiyo: That's Araragi-san's body pillow attack.

Why are you calmly explaining this, Hiyo-san!?
Wait, were you watching the whole time? Hey!?

Hiyo: Araragi-san always had the habit of hugging. With Harutsuge-san and me as pillows beside her, she often entwined before we knew it. It was inevitable that we fell into that crisis.

No, I don't care about the explanation! I'm not asking for that! Now that you're awake, help me!

Hiyo: There's this idea that one's state of mind appears in one's sleeping posture. It's from this American psychiatrist, Samuel Dun...

I don't care! Forget about that! Look here! Look at this situation!

Hiyo: ...But I have one result after the analysis. The "bankprez" Araragi-san speaks of is a strange pronunciation. Which means it's a nickname. And the real name...

Help me! H-E-L-P M-E!

Hiyo: It's called "bank president."

Why the heck!? Why from a bank? Why the head of a bank!?

Hiyo: By the way, if you apply this word to a common company, it's equivalent to a director. It was used as a title for various leaders of a Japanese organization in the past, but it became restricted to banks.

I know that! You interpret it as "to call oneself president is a manifestation of a privileged consciousness"! Don't make fun of my useless knowledge, dammitttt!

Harutsuge: ...You're noisy...

Sasamaru: Ha-Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: ...Hmm? I know that voice.

Gulp.
I think I actually hear this sound effect.

Intently.
Harutsuge is intently starting at me.

I can't see well because of the darkness, but she appears to be blaming me so much.

Hiyo: Ah, don't get the wrong idea, Harutsuge-san. I'm just...

Sasamaru: No.

I stop Hiyo halfway and lower my head.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry.

Harutsuge: ...

Eventually, Harutsuge moves her eyes away from me, lies down, and covers herself with the futon.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-sa...

Harutsuge: No problem. It was I who agreed to the reasonable rule of following this dorm's customs.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san...

Harutsuge: Forget that. I don't know if you're covering for him or not, but what's the reason for Suu-kun to apologize? There's something wrong with apologizing and pretending nothing happened.

Sasamaru: It's not that, Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: I'm apologizing for waking you up.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Harutsuge stares in puzzlement for a bit.
Then, she turns over and shows her back to us.

Harutsuge: I already know your circumstances. Don't mind it.

Sasamaru: Thank you.

What I feared is causing an unnecessary confusion.

A place with only girls. But one morning, a boy is sleeping together.
This is not logical. It's always the man who's in the wrong.

But there's no problem if she understands this.

Sasamaru: Okay, let's sleep, then.

Hiyo: Yes.

After looking at Hiyo, happy for some reason, I also become a little happy.

I think I'll be able to sleep soundly tonight.

Well, I'll still have problems from here on, though.

Hello, Mr. Reason. We'll be fighting from today on. Let's get along well.

//subchapter
Crying Devil
September 5 (Saturday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

The next day, early morning.

Sasamaru: (Ah, I slept so well...)

...Like hell I did!!

We've known each other since childhood, but still, I can't get a good night's sleep by sleeping beside three girls.
I have severe lack of sleep.

But I'm on duty today.
It's the perfect opportunity to get closer to everyone.

Sasamaru: (I must focus here too.)

This is no time to be sleepy.

Hiyo: Good morning, honey.

Sasamaru: Good morning. You're up early.

Hiyo does an elegant bow right in the morning.

Despite being filled with gracefulness, she's somehow cute.

Hiyo: Honey, you didn't sleep well?

Sasamaru: Eh?

My expression stiffens.

Sasamaru: W-why do you ask?

Hiyo: There are {\i1}dark circles{\i0} below your eyes.

Hiyo is painfully looking at me. She's really looking.

Thinking about it, I didn't sleep the first day. And yesterday was like {\i1}that.{\i0}

I have a complete lack of sleep.

Sasamaru: Ah, I'm fine. Hiyo, did you sleep well?

Hiyo: Yes. Thanks to you.

I can see small {\i1}dark circles{\i0} at the corners of the smiling Hiyo's eyes.

I can't point out this to a girl, but it seems Hiyo too didn't sleep well.

Despite that, she's up at the same time as me, who's on duty. Which means...

Sasamaru: (Don't tell me, she's worried about me?)

I'm making her be considerate again.

Sasamaru: I'll call you when it's done. You can sleep a little more.

But it's my fault she didn't sleep in the first place.

It was I who made her accompany me on the first day of school. If she didn't sleep yesterday, it was my fault.

If there's a change in Hiyo's environment so far, it's because "I'm here."

Sasamaru: (I think it's better if I sleep in a different room.)

I truly think this, but Hiyo might feel responsible if I say it out loud.

Well, that's only if Araragi, who slept peacefully well last night, doesn't object.

Sasamaru: Achoo!

And while I'm pondering, a sudden cold air assaults me.

Hiyo: Oh my. Is it a cold?

Sasamaru: No, it's not something that exaggera......Achoo!

Sasamaru: ...I guess it's a common cold.

Like rolling down a hill, mucus is sliding down from my nasal mucous membrane.
I wonder if I slept with my belly exposed.

Hiyo: Ah, that's not good.

Before I can look around, Hiyo takes a tissue from somewhere and presses it against my nose.

Hiyo: Here, honey. Honk your nose. Honk it.

Sasamaru: N-no, it's okay, really.

This layout is very embarrassing.

But Hiyo isn't making an unpleasant face.

Hiyo: Don't hold back. Honk it.

She's sending a glance full of love.
It's the very picture of a white angel attending a patient.

Sasamaru: (Ah, this is bad.)

And while I'm hesitating, the nose is dripping.

Hiyo: There, honk.

Harutsuge: Die already.

Sasamaru: ...

Whaaaat?

What? What is it? If you have something to say, then say it.

"The sea of withered trees."

This is how he called this place.

"Because it's as if the withered trees were drowning."

This is an idea that didn't occur to me.
And these words are really like him.

"It's all right. I was able to remember something important."

He said that when the morning sun enveloped us, who were shedding tears.

Meanwhile, I couldn't speak well. I could only look up at him.

Then, he said, "sorry for making you worry."

Hiyo: Honey...

His gentle voice hasn't changed.

I'm eagerly thinking about a way to reward this voice, but...

Hiyo: Are you...fine with that?

I asked something unnecessary, as if depending on him.

Then, he replied, "yeah."

"I know where I should run to," he said with a very dazzling smile.

If that smile wasn't, excuse my wording, false courage, then...

...that day, he certainly noticed something in that sea of withered trees.

Hiyo: (I'm glad.)

I felt a little relieved.

Even if they have just started walking, humans are beings who can walk forward as long as they have a clear objective.

I know he's someone who has such strength.

Then...

Then, what I must think about is how I can help him.

For him, who smiled and said, "I can work hard for 'someday' in the distant future."

Hiyo: "Someday"...

If he says, "I must do what I can for that"...

...then I must walk to turn this "someday" into "tomorrow" a bit sooner.

Hiyo: Umm...are you really going to make it yourself?

I'm in the kitchen, with the ingredients before me.
Beside me, Hiyo asks with uneasiness.

Wait, you can go back to sleep.

Sasamaru: It's a duty system, right? Of course, I'll do it.

Hiyo: That's...correct, but...

I wonder what's the matter.
Last night, she considered my intention of "I wish to follow the dorm's rules" and, as a result, I ended up not with a mixed bathing but with that mixed sleeping.

Sasamaru: (So...I'm really making her be concerned about me.)

For Hiyo, a person who can perform anything {\i1}flawlessly{\i0}, my behavior must be frustrating. I honestly think so.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Sorry to make you concerned, despite our re-encounter after a long time.

Sasamaru: But...how do I say..."duty" is for the sake of everyone, isn't it?

Hiyo: Eh?

Although, saying something obvious like this might seem strange.

Sasamaru: Being on duty has meaning because it's shared with everyone. For example, to avoid the grumbles of pushing everything onto a single person, or to make everyone self-conscious that they're a member of the dorm.

Sasamaru: This is all for this dorm's...no, it's a system for everyone who lives here.

Hiyo: Y...yes.

Sasamaru: So, I want to do this. Cooking, cleaning, closing the doors. I want to do my duties myself.

Sasamaru: With this, I'll carry out my function as this dorm's "structure." I'll be able to exist as this dorm's "member."

...Yes.

Sasamaru: I'll be included among "everyone."

Hiyo: ...

And if I do this...

Sasamaru: With this, I believe I'll be able to turn this dorm into a place I belong to.

Hiyo: ...

I'm feeling embarrassed right after speaking about it.
I can tell that my cheeks are blushing.

Sasamaru: Haha. It's like...this idea is kinda repulsive, right? Almost selfish.

Hiyo: N-no. That's not true.

Sasamaru: Okay.

Thanks.
In the past, Hiyo had always supported me like that.

Sasamaru: All right.

The place is different, but what I must do is the same.

I learned how to cook when I was a kid...
no, I {\i1}voluntarily{\i0} focused on being creative and original.

I can somewhat prepare any ingredient, no matter how scarce they are.

But the dormitory's refrigerator is fully packed with ingredients.

According to what Hiyo told me, the school supplies these ingredients.

Every week, they provide a fixed amount of ingredients according to each dormitory's number of students.

It looks like you can order anything you want, but, basically, all dorms use the ingredients chosen by the school.

...Hmm?
"If you can order anything, you can simply eat whatever you want," you say?

At first, everyone thinks this.
It's natural to think like this.
We can freely choose, so, we think of eating this and that.

But after living in this school for a little while, one realizes that this idea is wrong.

The reason is that "you can get anything you request," but what arrives are only the "ingredients," and "those who prepare these ingredients are the students."

For example, let's say there's a dorm who says, "then, let's order the Manchu–Han Imperial Feast!"

The next week, that dorm will be at a loss with the huge amount of ingredients.

If you don't know how to cook, you won't know how to prepare it.
What would you do if monkey brains really came?

Well, the Manchu–Han Imperial Feast is an extreme example. But, to some extent, the result is the same as an amateur who orders ingredients he can't cook.
The long-awaited ingredients will be wasted.

The sweet dream of "you can get anything you order" will simply sink.
This is a road everyone who comes to this school must walk.

This is why most dormitories do not order ingredients.

We use the ingredients chosen by the school, which are based on a menu that even students like us can make.

They settle with comparatively easy-to-make meals, passable meals that anyone can make.

Hiyo is in our dorm, so, we might even make something {\i1}amazing,{\i0} but, normally, the students don't have such a convenient cooking master.

Again, I think the school is really well-made.

Sasamaru: All right, it's done!

It's quite good.
I felt feedback at the end.
All that's left is if everyone will like it.

Hiyo: Good work. Well, I'll carry it, then.

Right on time. Hiyo places the meal plates on the tray and starts carrying them.

I think she's really skillful in sensing the mood.

For example, if I don't want to talk, she cleverly senses this and doesn't come to talk to me.

When I want a conversation, she also cleverly senses this and brings up a topic.
And thus, she sometimes acts as a supporter and sometimes as an eloquent main actor.

I was sure she had returned to the bedroom, but she appeared here to help with an almost calculated timing.

I want to be helpful.

Even while thinking this, the {\i1}unskillful{\i0} me can't guess what he desires and give it to him.

So...
he might talk to me like this.

Sasamaru: Spend your day like you always do.

This is the only way I can tell her.

Hiyo is considering my feelings and, although not helping directly, she's watching over beside me. This is the only way to show my gratitude.

I'm sure Hiyo will worry if I say, "you don't have to worry about me."

Hiyo: Like I always...do?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Your usual every day before I arrived here.

Hiyo: ...

...I knew it.

It's because I'm not skillful. Because I can't be considerate of him.

That's why he...

Sasamaru: Ah, well...

One moment.

For one moment, I think Hiyo was with a sad expression.

Sasamaru: (Maybe my wording was bad?)

I wonder if she misunderstood me.

Hiyo is already with her usual expression,
as if she promptly concealed it while thinking, "he'll worry if I show this face."

Sasamaru: It'll be a reference for me if you act like you always do.

Hiyo: A...reference?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I still don't know well how to live here. I was thinking of learning from observing my seniors.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Besides, you're always levelheaded, Hiyo. I was thinking of learning from you.

Hiyo: ...

I know, I'm not that smooth.
What I'm saying are my real feelings, but I can't quite convey them.

I'm frustrated by my lack of articulation.

Sasamaru: Aah...while I'm at it, I'd be happy if you could look after me.

Hiyo: Y-yes.

In the end, I'm relying on her like this.

I'm hopeless.

...Good.
Relief completely fills my chest.

He gave me a chance.

What a kind person.
He's even being considerate with the lie of learning from me.

While appreciating his generosity, I think about the meaning of his words.

...My every day.

My every day existed {\i1}for the day I would see him again.{\i0}

Hiyo: ...

Therefore...
the answer is the same, no matter how much I think.
My answer was always ready.

Hiyo: (Then, what should I do?)

Sasamaru: Here it is.

"Ooh."

Although it isn't anything exaggerated, everyone raises voices of joy.

Araragi: This smells goooood.

Harutsuge: ...

Looks like I'm making a good impression with the appearance and smell alone.

I feel relieved for now.

Sasamaru: You may eat. Don't be shy.

Hiyo: Thanks for the food.

Hiyo is with a somewhat excited voice.

Araragi: Thanks for the food.

Harutsuge: ...Thanks for the food.

...I'm nervous.

Maybe it's because the only opportunities I had of making home-cooked meals were to my family. I took time adjusting the seasoning so it doesn't turn out too strong, or perhaps too weak.

Sasamaru: (I tried as much as possible to use a passable seasoning, but...)

There isn't a seasoning that appeals to everyone, but I think there are seasonings that are accepted by most people.

I simply didn't have a chance to try it.

So, now I simply wait for their reactions while calming down my throbbing pulsation.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

After taking one bite, Harutsuge's movements stop.

Sasamaru: H-how is it?

Harutsuge: ...

...Maybe I...messed up.

Araragi: It's delicious!

Hiyo: It really is. What a good seasoning.

Sasamaru: R-really!?

It appears it suited their tastes.

Huh? So, it didn't suit Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: Thanks for the food.

She's done already!?

W-what is this? The good and old tsundere?
May I take that as a "the meal was good"!?

Araragi: Harutsuge-san, you liked it too, didn't you?

Harutsuge: ...It wasn't bad.

Araragi: That's Harutsugese for you, Suu-kun. It means it was delicious.

Sasamaru: I-is that so...

Harutsuge is averting her eyes when I reflexively look at her, though.

But that's good. I guess it is well received.

Hiyo: Hehe. I was you who made it, honey. Of course it's good.

Harutsuge: Though, I think you'd say that regardless of the taste.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: I can't get enough of those eyes. I might get addicted.

Araragi: In your case, it won't be nicotinism, you'll get Hiyotinism.

Harutsuge: Hah hah. So, that's short for "Hiyo-kun, I want you." You understand me well, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: From that retort, you're already terminal.

In blank amazement, I'm watching everyone speak their thoughts while having their meals.

Sasamaru: (Isn't this like...good vibes?)

It appears the cooking worked in a good direction.

Food is the basis of a good livelihood. If you can delight the tongue, you will naturally become delighted too.

Now, if I can just start a topic to make the conversation thrive...

Maybe a talk about old times?
The conversation might get better if I start a topic about something everyone remembers.

Sasamaru: Which reminds me, we once gathered at the park and watched the fireworks, right?

Araragi: Ah...yeah.

Harutsuge: ...

H-huh?

Hiyo: Yes, we did that.

Sasamaru: R-right? I never had shot fireworks before. Everyone gave me money to buy it, but I bought only sparklers.

Hiyo: Hehe. How nostalgic.

Araragi: Ah, hahaha. That's right.

Harutsuge: ...

...I fail.
The long-awaited mood fades away.

Sasamaru: (Maybe I shouldn't carelessly bring out old stories.)

But why?

In any case, there's nothing I can do if it's unpleasant.

Sasamaru: B-by the way, Araragi. Did you have a good dream yesterday?

I feel very awkward, like a father who can't approach his teenager son and asks, "how's school?"

Araragi: Yes. It was a very, very amazing dream.

As if looking at a far distant world, Araragi is with an entranced expression.

Sasamaru: It was a dream about the bank president, right?

Araragi: Ah...y-you remembered.

That's not something easily forgotten, including her clothes' impact.

But Araragi doesn't know I slept beside her.

I can tell from talking with her like this. Araragi is a very good girl, always balancing things so everyone doesn't start fighting.

Sasamaru: (She's a middle-aged man, all right.)

Only this aspect of her is that of a middle-aged man.

And her appearance, voice type, and tone are exactly the ones of a cheerful person: the life of the party.

Sasamaru: (She's really a middle-aged man.)

But her way of thinking is nothing more than a middle-aged man.

And while I'm sitting beside her like this, her casual movement makes her scent caress my nasal cavity.

Enough to feel a bit dizzy.
She's a girl with such a good smell, and still...

Hiyo: Araragi-san has a very nice smell, hasn't she?

I unintentionally startle at Hiyo, letting out the exact same words I'm thinking.

Araragi: REALLY!? Did I finally start letting out an old person's smell!?

Hiyo: No, I mean the opposite. I think it's a very charming and girly smell.

Araragi: Aaaahh...

Hiyo: I don't know why you're feeling regretful at this, nor why you asked, "did I start letting out an old person's smell?" with sparkling eyes in the first place.

Harutsuge: This matter is Araragi's illness. It's beyond help.

Araragi: You see? The bank president is so lovely, you know?

And a fervent speech starts.

Yes, I know.
The one you call bank president is a very noble, highly intellectual, and wonderful person.

I know this very well from the facts of your story about being rescued.

Honestly, anyone would admire him. Even I think he's cool.

But the problem is when you talk about him through your filter. He degrades into a terrible middle-aged man.

I don't think a middle-aged man has a low social position, but, the more you talk about him while sparkling your eyes, the more his value decreases.

Araragi: You see? The bank president says that, after meals, we should use a toothpick while sucking the teeth. I get embarrassed and can't do it naturally, but we should really do this.

Araragi: Also, it's standard to wipe your face with the table's hand towel. But I still can't do it well.

What's this? There's a middle-aged man who doesn't smell like an old person here.

Or rather, there's a one-size tinier middle-aged man here trying her best to obtain a middle-aged man's characteristics.

But thinking through the question, "is she a middle-aged man?", I say she's different. She has a mysteriously strange finished look. Yup.

Araragi: And then, the bank president also...

Or rather, the topic is losing itself.
Araragi isn't stopping.

Now that it has come to this, I must change the topic.
Yes. A topic that we haven't talked about so far.

For example, about the fireworks earlier...

Sasamaru: Everyone, do you like skyrocket fireworks?

I say this while recalling that we never saw skyrocket fireworks together.

Sasamaru: That feeling when they scatter in the night sky...it has a nice charm. Hiyo, do you like fireworks?

First, ask Hiyo for help.

Hiyo: Yes. The glitter interwoven from strontium's red and titanium's orange. The depth the copper oxide's blue and the barium nitrate's green give. And the accompanying aluminum's gold. Everything coming together and forming a wonderful flame reaction.

Sasamaru: ...

Easily bombed.
I rethink and face Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: S-sure...and you, Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: I like it.

Sasamaru: Okay.

Harutsuge: That magnificent scattering is like the life of a certain someone.

Sasamaru: ...

Sinking majestically.

Sasamaru: And Arara...gi...

Araragi: Ah, hahaha. F-fireworks are pretty~

What's that reaction about?
Am I stepping on another landmine by asking Araragi for help?

Harutsuge: Bed-wetting.

Araragi: W-w-wa-wait a minute, Harutsuge-chan.

Hiyo: Bed-wetting?

Araragi: Aah...err, long ago...when I was very, very little, ok? I got surprised by the sound of skyrocket fireworks and...well...

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: (I'll stop with the fireworks topic.)

They are talking, though.

They aren't ignoring me nor openly pushing me away.

But it's different from long ago.
I'm feeling this delicate sense of distance.

...We're still distant from those days.

It's futile to compare with long ago, but...
we're still distant.

We finish the meal and tidy up.

Sasamaru: (I'm happy. They ate everything.)

I'll take this as a good sign.
At least my cooking didn't worsen the mood.

This is enough for now.

Araragi: Suu-kun, you're really a good cook.

Sasamaru: No, I simply had many opportunities to make this. But I'm glad everyone liked my seasoning.

Harutsuge: Didn't Hiyo-kun help?

Hiyo: Not at all. Everything was made by him alone.

Harutsuge: If Hiyo-kun claims that and Suu-kun keeps quiet, I'd have no way to know.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san?

Sasamaru: Yeah. She helped me.

Hiyo: H-honey?

Hiyo looks at me in surprise.
Then, Harutsuge makes a face of "I told you so."

Sasamaru: I'm very indebted to Hiyo. So, it's like Hiyo helped with everything I'm doing now.

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: Honey...

Harutsuge: ...Hmm.

Harutsuge quietly stands up and leaves the living room.

Sasamaru: ...

I simply stated a fact. I wonder if I made Harutsuge mad.

Sasamaru: Sorry. I think I worsened the mood.

I'm really hopeless.

Araragi: That's not true. Maybe Harutsuge-chan was simply in a bad mood.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Hiyo: You don't have to worry about it. She said all that even though you worked very hard to make the meal.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san.

Soon after that. Hiyo calls Harutsuge, who is walking in the hallway.

Hiyo: I have something to discuss with you. Do you have a moment?

Harutsuge: What is it, Hiyo-kun? Is it a love confession?

Hiyo: Something to discuss.

Harutsuge: Yes.

Well...

Today's the first day off since I came to school.

Season-wise, it was a half-baked school entry. But the half-baked day of the week that was Thursday made the day off come faster...
but I have already decided what I must do.

Sasamaru: (First, I must get used to this dorm.)

I'm on duty today. I'm thinking of starting with the cleaning and laundry.

I still know too little about this dormitory's environment.
This is the first thing I must learn.

I head to my destination while learning the classification of the keys for closing the doors.

Well, let's go cleaning, then.
I'm eager to start, but, apparently, each person must clean their own room.

That makes sense.
Anyone can enter your room if they have permission to clean it.

Even in this sparse dormitory, this policy is already set regarding our private rooms, where the personal belongings are.

So, the one on duty cleans the public spaces...
which might sound strange, but it's only the living room everyone uses and the bedroom.

Sasamaru: (Araragi is still relaxing in the living room. I'll start with the bedroom, then.)

I go to the front of the bedroom.

Harutsuge: And what do you want to discuss, Hiyo-kun?

I hear a voice from inside the bedroom.

Sasamaru: (Huh? This voice is from...Harutsuge?)

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san. The truth is...

Harutsuge: You don't need to continue with "I love you." I already know that.

Hiyo: There's something I want to ask you.

Harutsuge: So, you ignored me. You've gotten strong, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: I feel something uncomfortable in that proud expression of yours, but...

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san, why are you being so mean to him?

Harutsuge: Mean?

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: (Huh? I'm the topic?)

Harutsuge: I'm not being mean. I'm dealing with him very normally.

Hiyo: That behavior is normal, you say?

Harutsuge: That's right.

Hiyo: We were always together since childhood. Are you saying that Kashi Harutsuge is a person who approaches others with that behavior?

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: ...If you say so, I'll have to ask.

Hiyo: I've always wanted to ask this. After a certain time, you suddenly started avoiding topics about him, correct?

Harutsuge: ...Mmnn.

Hiyo: I do believe in you. You are not a person to act like that at random. I believe you have your reasons.

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: However, we have met again. I'll have to change if you'll still behave rudely like that.

Hiyo: I won't force a reason out of you if you can't tell it. But could you stop acting like that?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: (I can't hear them very well.)

I think they're talking about me, but...
they're not the type to talk in a loud voice, so, I can't hear them well.

I might be able to hear if I approach the sliding screen a bit more, but my shadow would be cast on the sliding door and I'd be found.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san. I...

Harutsuge: I got it, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: Huh? You got it?

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Hiyo: I-Is that so. I'm sorry. I spoke in a strong voice tone by mistake.

Harutsuge: In short, Hiyo-kun. You're jealous, aren't you?

Hiyo: ...Huh?

Harutsuge: You're in panic, thinking that I might take away Suu-kun, am I right?

Hiyo: Umm...how on earth did you interpret this conversation and arrived at that conclusion?

Harutsuge: The process doesn't matter. What this world needs is love.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: I involuntarily made the face of a patient who suddenly was asked, "is your family here?" at father's examination room.

Harutsuge: I've always wanted to ask, but is your father...

Hiyo: ...In any case.

Harutsuge: Yes.

Hiyo: I realized you have no intention of listening to my story.

Sasamaru: (Ugh...!)

//text on screen
*Rumble*

...What...is this?
What is this ominous miasma overflowing from the room?

It is an intimidating air.

My liver might get devoured the moment I step in there.

Yes, this feeling is...

...terror.

Then, in order to swiftly guide this situation to a solution, I immediately make a decision.

Sasamaru: (That's right. Let's clean.)

Run away.

Well, I didn't have much time to look around this dorm due to the last days' ruckus.

From the area's surface, there must be many rooms I haven't seen yet.

I take the liberty to look around while I'm cleaning, but, as I thought or maybe as expected, there's nothing but empty rooms in this dormitory.

Presently, there are only four students in my class. And there were only three before I came.
The number of unused rooms is overwhelmingly large.

No one will mind if someone wants to use these unused rooms.

For example, wanting two rooms due to the numerous luggage, or wanting a room distanced from others because one is studying music and doesn't want to bother the others.

It's obvious, but, in these cases, the person himself cleans the empty room.

Sasamaru: (Which means...)

Then, I finally realize.

To clean all the rooms is something to be done in a big cleaning once per year. So, basically, unused rooms keep pilling up dust.
I took a look just now, but they're in great condition.

I heard that everyone cleaned their own rooms when they first arrived.

When you use a room from a senior who graduated, you don't have to clean it from scratch. But I took quite some time to come, so...

Also, I heard the room I'm using now hasn't been used for a long time.

Which means that someone cleaned my room before I arrived.

It doesn't even have the small dust on the tatami. There isn't any conspicuous dirt. It's so clean that you wouldn't think it wasn't used for a long time.

Sasamaru: (I wonder if everyone did it for me.)

After thinking this, I suddenly feel eager to clean.
I'll work hard and make the rooms we use sparkling.

After confirming no one is in the living room, I decide to clean it next.

The living room is everyone's place of respite.
It is the center of the meals and friendly conversations.

I have to put my heart into it.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

When I'm about to start, an odd object lying in the corner of the room catches my eye.

And when I'm about to pick it up...

Sasamaru: ...The heck?

A...doll?

There's a sash around it.
And "victory" vaguely written on it, but...
victory over what?

Huh? Its back is kinda stiff.

After caressing it, an odd 'click' sound echoes.

And then...

//sound only
Thank you for your vote.
Thank you for your vote.
Thank you fo...ote.
Th...fo...vot...
T...k y...f...e.
A-a-a-a-ari-ari-ri-ri-ri-ri-ri
Arrivederci

Sasamaru: ...

...
...
...

Sasamaru: (...I'll pretend I didn't see and didn't hear anything.)

I gently put the doll back where it was.

Next is the laundry.

It seems this dorm's laundry is done with this washing machine.

Everyone is doing this duty system, but I can't join this one.

Meaning that I should do mine at my own pace, but...
it's easy {\i1}to do just one person's portion every day.{\i0}

But I don't exercise, so, it won't pile up enough to do it every day.

I'm used to doing laundry.

{\i1}I'm used to being punched for a nonexistent dirt.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Life here is really like paradise.)

Because I'm living a normal life where {\i1}I do my tasks for myself.{\i0}

Hiyo: Oh my, are you doing laundry too, honey?

Sasamaru: Oh, you too, Hiyo?

I wonder if the sorcery battle against Harutsuge has ended.
Hiyo shows up while holding clothes, probably for laundry.

Sasamaru: Wait a little. I'll soon finish this.

I already put the clothes in the machine and even put the detergent.
I'll have to do it first.

Sasamaru: Err...

Although the building itself is like this, the washing machine looks new. I don't quite know how to use it.

The one at home was an old one, so, I feel there are many strange functions in this one.

Sasamaru: (Calm down. Don't be misled by the many functions. There's only one thing to do with a washing machine, and that's the laundry.)

After attempting this unknown mental concentration, I carefully press the buttons.

Despite my awkward hand movements, the washing machine starts working without problems.

This is a piece of cake.
I think I pressed some strange buttons too. The point is, it just has to wash.

Araragi: Huh? Everyone's doing the laundry, too?

Harutsuge: Oh, what a coincidence.

Everyone gathers out of nowhere.
So, this time on Saturday is crowded?

Sasamaru: Wa-wait a little.

I have few clothes, so, it'll soon end...
or so I thought.

Some lovely sounds are coming from the washing machine.

Sasamaru: H-huh?

With my common sense, I don't think this sound that I can only call "strange" should come from a washing machine.

Sasamaru: Wait, stop, stop.

I must first stop it.
I keep pressing the button, but it's showing no signs of stopping at all.

Or rather, the sound is even weirder.

This is no longer a sound you hear from a washing machine.

Sasamaru: Ah...

Araragi: It broke.

Harutsuge: No, he broke it.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

I messed up!
W-w-w-w-w-what do I do!?

Hiyo: I-it's the Pauli Effect!

Sasamaru: P-Pauli?

Araragi: This is no time to talk about parsley~

Hiyo: The Australian Wolfgang Pauli was a renowned physicist who made many meritorious services, but he was also known by his lack of skill with experiments and often broke the machinery.

Hiyo: And then, they call the "Pauli Effect" when any equipment, electronic or not, mysteriously breaks merely by touching it!

Hiyo: That's amazing! Honey was born with the same ability as the person who discovered the spin theory and the Pauli exclusion principle!

Harutsuge: You don't often hear a painful defense like this.

Hiyo: And Pauli also...!

Harutsuge: You're not solving the problem. We can't do laundry like this. What will we do?

Araragi: Hmmmm. But nothing can be done if it broke.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun is the fastest one in switching topics.

Sasamaru: I'll go apologize. Does the office handle these things?

Araragi: Ah, I'll go apologize together. They'll fix it right away if we tell them what happened.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Harutsuge: I'll go too.

Sasamaru: Ha-Harutsuge?

Sasamaru: I'll spread around the whole school that a newcomer pervert intentionally broke the washing machine to make us not wash our underwear and get them still scented.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry. This is my fault. I'll go alone.

Hiyo: By the way, Pauli also...!

Sasamaru: I'll go and kowtow. Please let me go with this.

And then, I return to school.

Everyone was saying something different, but this is my responsibility as the one who broke it.

I had many chances to walk around with everyone, but I don't think I can call this a chance.

And then, the equipment procedures ended relatively quickly, but...

Sasamaru: (I'm lost.)

This school is too big.

I knew the grounds were huge, but I didn't think the school buildings themselves would be so extensive.

And its structure greatly differs from normal schools, making the paths not so obvious.

Sasamaru: Oops...

After casually stepping outside the school building, I lose my way at the woods surrounding the school.

But its impression is considerably different from before.

The pouring sunlight is warmer compared to before.

That's natural since it was late at night, but there's another clear difference aside from the day and night change.

Sasamaru: (So, the mist is gone.)

Looking closely, I again notice the extent of the forest.

Sasamaru: (I knew it. It's no coincidence.)

I realize something after walking around the school.

The first day, I couldn't suppress my high spirits and didn't pay attention to it.

The second day, I was bothered but didn't have time to feel doubtful about it.

But now, on the third day...
my feelings are messy as always, but I can question it now, maybe because I'm a little familiar with the environment.

After feeling doubtful about it, I naturally turn my eyes {\i1}there{\i0}.

Then, after consciously looking at it...
its frequency is remarkable enough to not appear as a coincidence.

Sasamaru: (Doesn't this school have too many...withered trees?)

It's not "too many." I feel there are {\i1}nothing but{\i0} withered trees.

After clearly thinking this once, I feel this is absurd or perhaps impossible.

But this is how it is.
Since I came to this school, I've only seen withered trees, and we're in the autumn.

It is this period, too soon to be the end of the autumn that will be replaced by the winter.

And...

Sasamaru: (A connecting hallway.)

I arrive at an awfully open place.

And at the moment I step there...

...multicolored pieces of paper cross the atmospheric ocean.

Sasamaru: (What?)

Each one is nothing more than a mere scrap of paper. Small, very small existences, but...
after pilling up one on top of another while dancing in the wind, the landscape built there suggests one season.

Sasamaru: ("Autumn"?)

Yes, it's almost like the autumn.
After dyeing the mountain with a warm color and falling on the ground, the colored red leaves paint the road with warmth.

The autumn landscape created by these pieces of paper is like a legend from a poem book.

My breath is taken away...
by this sensation of almost melting into it.

This hallucination, as if my body had become water, soaking...

Ah, that's right.
It's similar to the sensation when there's an exceptional piece of art before you.

The feeling as if you're being absorbed into the painting before your eyes.
As if you're being pulled into the world drawn there, as if you have already entered it before you realize.

In this red autumn world—as if it was dyed using the sunset as the paint—there's a mansion built by the origami called pieces of paper.

This mansion is a capital.

A giant ancient city, elegant and graceful.

Then...

Then, I'm sure there is...

...a princess.

In this world that sprouts in the morning,
blooms at noon,
and closes its leaves at night...

...there is a princess of a flower in full bloom at all times.

Unaware of earthly events.

A princess, beautiful at all times.

Sasamaru: ...

I simply space out, with my mouth open like an idiot.

I'm fascinated by the capital of flowers unfolding before me.

I'm startled.

I return to my senses after looking at a juice can that has fallen on the floor.

My eyes take me from the feeling of wandering into a fairy-tale world and back to the reality reflected in them.

?: Hmm?

The beautiful princess...
no, the girl notices me and turns over.

After reflecting about the fact that I'm charmed by her, I can tell that my cheeks are blushing.

Sasamaru: O...oops.

In panic, I pick up the can she dropped.

Sasamaru: Here.

I extend what I have picked up.

It's milk tea.

?: ...

After taking it, she stares at me and...

?: It's mine.

She arrogantly says this.

Sasamaru: Err, I won't take it, okay?

I reflexively jab at her.

?: ...

Wow. Look at her expression.

She's carefully carrying the milk tea filling both her arms, as if protecting them from the robber, me.

It has been a while since I've seen an obvious face of distrust like this.

?: I am fully aware that no one can resist the charm of the milk-chi.

?: Still, I do not approve of taking others' belongings.

Sasamaru: What's that one-track mind about? Wait, I said I won't take it.

?: ...

What are those eyes for?
I'm lightly hurt.

?: I'm sure you're the type who, after seeing me buying up the milk-chi, comes in a hurry to get a share of what I'm enjoying.

?: Hahah, how unfortunate. I shall give my milk-chi to no one. Give up.

I don't even want it, how can I give up?

?: W-well...I might give it if big sis says it's ok.

Why are you blushing?
And who's big sis?

?: But that's an exception among exceptions. I won't give it to you.

Sasamaru: That's no reason to...

?: Don't play dumb. This world has the law of the jungle. You now have the eyes of someone hunting for prey.

Sasamaru: No, I have no idea what you're saying.

?: The law of the jungle means that the stronger one is the victor, prospering in the world. Its meaning is similar to survival of the fittest.

Sasamaru: That's not my point.

?: What a selfish fella.

Whaaaaaat?

Sasamaru: Well, I got it. What if I say that I don't like milk tea?

?: Huh?

Sasamaru: I'm no good with that "slippery" feeling in my throat. I've never been able to drink milk tea.

?: ...

Sasamaru: Okay? Are you relieved now? I have no merit in stealing your milk tea.

?: ...

Sasamaru: Okay?

?: You got it all wrong.

Sasamaru: Eh?

?: First, someone who hates milk-chi doesn't exist in this world, correct?

Huh? Wait, that's a given?

?: Therefore, a situation without merits is impossible to happen. Do you feel thirst in your everyday life? You're a human. Of course you feel this.

?: And what do you do, then? Have a milk-chi, correct?

Sasamaru: Hey, were you listening to me?

?: Yes. Let's cherish the obsession of calling it milk-chi instead of milk tea.

I don't get it.

?: One more thing. Even if, even if, for argument's sake, even if we assume you hate milk-chi...

That's quite a low probability assumption.

?: There's the possibility of you selling them. The world is overflowing with seekers of milk-chi. I hear there are countless people getting rich.

How much profit do you think there is from selling a mere juice can?

Or rather, what on earth is a seeker?
Is there a 'way of the milk tea'?
Is it a road?
Is it a doctrine?

?: Consequently, milk-chi exists in this world. Am I having a dream of drinking milk-chi, or is it a dream of drinking milk-chi that I'm having?

She tries to say something smart but turns into a disappointment.

Wait, she simply changed the subject. The meaning remains the same.
There's no "Butterfly Dream."

Sasamaru: Got it. I got it. Milk tea is amazing. It can change the world.

?: "Change the world"? Are you dumb?

Dammiiiiiiiiiit!!

How bad a clown am I? I can't make a living like this!

Sasamaru: Well, in any case, I won't steal your milk tea. Please rest assured and drink it, decorate your house shrine with it, or pursue your way with it.

?: ...

Sasamaru: Okay?

?: Keep repeating yourself and I'll turn you into a lump of meat, dammit.

Sasamaru: Whaaaaaaaaat?

She's unreasonable. What on earth do I do? What must I do to end this conversation!?

Hiyo: ...Oh?

?: Ah.

Out of nowhere, Hiyo appears.

Hiyo: Sorry for the wait, ho...

Don't come, Hiyo! This girl is dangerous!

?: G-good afternoon, big sis.

Hiyo: Oh my, good afternoon, Waka-san.

...Huh?

?: Nice weather today, isn't it?

Hiyo: That's true.

?: B-big sis, you're beautiful, very beautiful today, too.

Hiyo: Oh my, thank you very much for the consideration. By the way, you said the same thing twice.

?: Ah, oh, no. But I wasn't being considerate. It's a fact.

I guess they know each other.

Sasamaru: Umm, Hiyo-san, {\i1}who on earth{\i0} is this girl?

I quietly whisper to Hiyo.

When our faces approach each other, her cheeks blush.

Hiyo: Ah, s-she is Waka-san.

Sasamaru: Waka-san?

Hiyo: ...Ah, I understand. You haven't introduced yourselves, have you? You were friendly talking to each other. I was sure you had already finished that.

In a certain way, her 'self' has shown up all right.
And I think the vector called "friendly" doesn't apply to our exchange just now.

Hiyo: This person is Waka-san. She's from the student council.

Sasamaru: Ehh!?

Waka: What reaction is that?

Sasamaru: Ah, well, how do I say...

Waka: Is it surprising that I'm from the student council?

Sasamaru: Surprising...or should I call it unimaginable, or unforeseen, or maybe unexpected.

Hiyo: All of those have the same meaning.

Waka: You're really an impolite fella.

Impolite...yes. This is really impolite.

Sasamaru: Sorry. I got a little surprised.

Waka: Yes, apologize. Then, reflect, self-examine, introspect, and do some soul-searching.

Sasamaru: All of those have the same meaning too.

Hiyo: Waka-san.

Waka: Yes.

Hiyo: Please don't tease him too much.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Whoa!?

She's feeling sad!?

What kind of easy-to-understand sadness is this!?

Waka: Sniff...

Eventually, Waka-san raises her face while still downhearted.

Waka: Aah, I have no choice if big sis says that. I'm a little at fault, too. Only a little bit. I won't apologize, though.

Sasamaru: {\i1}Oh really.{\i0}

She has her issues, but how is their relationship anyway?

Hiyo: Waka-san?

Waka: Yes! Aah, I'll dare say it. I'm from the student council. Also, English can eat shit.

You just wanted to say the latter.

Hiyo: Waka-san assists the student council president.

Waka: Yes. I'm the student council president's errand girl.

Sasamaru: Errand girl?

Waka: Yes. Using a more stylish word, I'm a familiar.

There's a problem with calling 'familiar' a stylish word, but leaving that aside, you just wanted to say that.
Wait, you're using "stylish" today?

Waka: This is why I'll convey the student council president's words to you.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: Again a surprised face. What is it now?

Sasamaru: Ah, but we met by coincidence.

What message is that anyway?

Waka: You're too naive. What if I was feigning coincidence? Don't you know this world is overflowing with female traps feigning coincidence simply to approach the person on their minds?

Sasamaru: I don't know why you have to feign coincidence to convey a message.

Waka: Do not think that all the events in this world have meaning. Children often think adults do everything with a plan in mind, but, surprisingly, it's only a spur of the moment.

You're unreasonable. What's all that freedom about?

Waka: That's why I'll convey the student council president's words.

Sasamaru: Ok, ok.

Waka: Listen to me.

Sasamaru: I am listening.

Waka: Sit down.

Sasamaru: You serious?

Waka: Stand up.

Sasamaru: Enough, start it already.

I'm completely clueless about what I should jab first.

Hiyo: Waka-san, don't be too mean to him.

Waka: Y-yes. I'm sorry.

I'm thinking for a while now, but this girl...

Waka: B-big sis got angry at me!

Sasamaru: Well, whose fault was that?

Waka: What will I do if big sis starts hating me!?

Wrong.
Too wrong.
Her behavior toward Hiyo and me is too wrong.

Sasamaru: Hiyo won't hate you because of that.

Waka: Ah.

Waka: What's that attitude of "unconditional trust" about? Rather, I've been bothered for a while now, but what is your relationship with big sis?

Before asking, please fix that face already.

Sasamaru: Aah...how do I say, we're long time friends.

Waka: What was that!?

"What was that" is my line. What face is that?

Waka: Y-you're not in an intimate relationship, are you?

Sasamaru: Eh? No, that's not it...

Wait, your body is trembling. Are you okay? Are you ill?

Sasamaru: We're friends.

Yes.
Very cherished friends.

Waka: Is that true?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: Tch...

Waka: ...!

Due to Waka-san's position, I can't see Hiyo very well, but she seems to be observing Hiyo's every action. She turns her head around, as if overreacting at her behavior.

Then, she makes an expression of despair.

Waka: Wha...what a thing. Is this...is this really possible!?

Waka: Big sis is friends with this dirty, filthy, and lascivious man...of all people...

I don't know where the conversation is going, but I know that the "dirty, filthy, and lascivious man" is indicating me.

I am honored by your words.
Or rather, nice of you to know the word "lascivious."

Waka: Now that it has come to this...

Sasamaru: What is it?

Waka: I'll kill you and not kill myself too.

Sasamaru: WAIT!!

Wait, you normally say, "I'll kill you and kill myself too!"
In the first place, you're doing many things wrong!
Aah, it's too bothersome to jab at everything!!

Sasamaru: Wait. Calm down. Let's talk this over.

Waka: Don't you worry. I hear humans are surprisingly calm in times like these.

Sasamaru: Wait a moment. I recommend distancing yourself if that vivid testimonial came directly from your friend's mouth, but first, wait!

Waka: Don't mind me. Surprisingly, the person stabbed doesn't remember a thing.

Sasamaru: Stop approaching while speaking plausible sentences. Don't move...don't move from that position, you hear?

Waka: From here?

Sasamaru: You stepped forward now, right? No, no, it's not that. You jumped the gun. This is already very different from the premise.

Waka: In a bit, you'll be within my hand's reach.

Sasamaru: The hell you're touching me. Wait, it's useless to use a sweet poetic expression. I mean, stop sidling up to me.

Waka: Yes. If only I had a bit of courage...

Sasamaru: No, that's not courage. Not courage, right? I often hear people mistake courage with recklessness, but I never heard about mistaking courage and killing intent!

Waka: There.

Sasamaru: "There" my foot!!

Ah, that was dangerous.
Close call.

Wait, she unleashed that without any hesitation.
She's either a psychopath or a serial killer. She's really dangerous.

Hiyo: Umm, you two. What are you doing?

Waka: It's dangerous. Please keep your distance. And if possible, never ever approach this man again.

Now, she tells her real feelings.

Hiyo: Man? Waka-san, did honey do something?

Waka: Ho...!

Shock.

Waka: H-ho...

Impatience.

Waka: ...ney...

Despair.

And then...

Waka: Well, I have a question for you. Do you prefer to be killed after going through a painful experience or do you prefer to be killed after going through a painful experience?

Sasamaru: They're the sameeeeee!!

Someone once said that what's really frightening isn't a devil or a monster. It's human's evil.

Hiyo: W-wait, Waka-san?

And our angel descends upon us.

Hiyo: I think you have the wrong idea. I've been friends with him for a long time...and...

Waka: Ah, is that so? Jeez, I'm so careless. Sorry.

Hey, wait. What's that difference in reaction about!?

Wait, what? Is the misunderstanding over? Is it over!?
I was about to lose my life to a misunderstanding this easily solvable!?

Hiyo: T-that's right. So, our relationship is not...what you're thinking...

Waka: ...Big sis...

Waka: Hey.

Sasamaru: Yes!?

Waka: Look, it's the first time I see big sis like that.

Sasamaru: O-okay.

Waka: I like big sis. Consequently, I hate you. So, I don't want big sis to make that face.

Sasamaru: Okay.

I don't quite get that reasoning, but I understand that you like Hiyo.

Waka: So...there's something I want to say to you.

Waka-san is with a serious face, and then...

Waka: Hit your little toe and fall over with a somersault!

Resented, she leaves.

What...what on earth was that?

She's a girl with a quiet air but also like a sharp blade.
However, the blade part gives a distorted impression, as if it was used in some ritual.

Sasamaru: Err...Hiyo, is she your friend?

Hiyo: Yes. We are on good terms.

Hiyo says that, but I feel it's a one-sided adoration.

Well, she's very dependable and can also be attentive. It's natural that girls too adore her.

Hiyo: ...? W-what is it?

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. It's nothing.

I unintentionally keep staring at her.

Sasamaru: Well, you seemed considerably adored just now.

Hiyo: Is...that so?

Not realizing this is really like Hiyo.
She has always been like that.

She often has this unapproachable air on her, and others often look at her from afar. Because of this, she gathers respect and, in some cases, even adoration.

Despite that, the person herself doesn't put on airs.

Although, her impression when we were very, very little was a bit different.

Hiyo: Ah, but our relationship isn't special, okay? I am straight, so, even if you hope for a sapphic development, it won't happen, okay?

No, I'm not hoping for it.

...Hmm?
I think I heard a "tch" just now.
Maybe it's my imagination.

Sasamaru: By the way, Hiyo. What's up? Do you have some business at school?

And today's even a day off.

Hiyo: Y-yes.

After Hiyo's reaction, I'm sure.

She came looking for me because I didn't return.
I failed.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: I think Waka-san said "message" a moment ago.

Hiyo: Ah.

She left without telling it.

Waka-san.
A frightening, mysterious girl.

And thus, we are walking through the walkway in the opposite direction in order to return to the dorms, but...

While going down the steps, I can't help but look at the outside scenery.

Sasamaru: (Autumn...huh.)

What I'm forcefully feeling is the contradiction of the season.

There is a magnificent scenery stretching beyond the fence.

This is an open place. Originally, the picturesque landscape pleases the eyes so much that you think it's a sacrilege to finish climbing the stairs.

But the scenery actually reflecting in my eyes is very shabby.

The mountains in the distance are dressed up in radiant garments, but what I see when I lower my eyes to near me is a scenery of withered trees.

Their clothes were stolen by the short-tempered winter, exposing their emaciated bodies to the public eyes.

It is autumn, but the scenery doesn't match it.
This is a very strange contradiction.

Sasamaru: It's so strange. I feel we're in autumn, but it doesn't look like autumn.

I instinctively mutter this.

Hiyo: I too was surprised the first time I saw this.

Sasamaru: Are the trees of this school like this the whole year?

Hiyo: No. It's only in this season.

Hiyo: In spring, the spring flowers were budding. In summer...and winter too. The four seasons' existences were there.

Her answer is a bit unexpected.

For some reason, I have the feeling that this scenery continues all year round.

Sasamaru: Only the autumn is like this?

I don't want to address the place I yearned for as "this," but still, it's the only word I can find to describe this lonesome scenery.

Hiyo: Yes.

The first word that comes to mind is "illness."

The vegetation too becomes ill.
It's the same as humans. That's why it's important to prevent it.

But I wonder if there's an illness that affects only the autumn.

Sasamaru: Is it like the September blues?

Hiyo: September blues?

Sasamaru: Humans and plants become ill similarly. Then, in the same manner humans have September blues, don't plants have a similar illness?

Hiyo: ...In autumn?

Sasamaru: There are people who become gloomy in September, but plants may have this delayed, maybe because they are serene or because their surroundings aren't overflowing with information so much.

Hiyo: ...

I know I said it myself, but I think it's a reasoning way too forced.

Hiyo: ...Hehe. Hehehe.

Sasamaru: Ah...it's weird, right?

But Hiyo's laughter doesn't have a scornful tone.
On the contrary, she seems glad.

Hiyo: Honey, you haven't changed at all.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Hehe. Honey, the trees are always there, you know? Until they wither and decay. Do you think they have September blues due to environmental changes, just like humans?

Sasamaru: Let's change our way of thinking. For the trees, it's normal to stay still in the same place. Which means that, for the trees, the environment is the humans themselves.

Hiyo: The humans themselves?

Sasamaru: Yes. In this school, it's the students who come every year. And the graduate students replaced by them. For the trees, this is their "environment."

Sasamaru: For example, has that quiet girl who was always reading books by the trees already graduated? Or is that boy who always ran around full of energy no longer here?

Hiyo: So, the trees are lonely?

When asking this, Hiyo seems happy for some reason.

Sasamaru: It's not just that. They might be feeling shy toward the new students. No one can tell a tree's expression, so, no one knows how they interact with people, right?

Sasamaru: They might think that maybe this year didn't have the encounters they were hoping for. Or, more bluntly, they don't like the new boy who always plays pranks on them.

Hiyo: So, all that accumulates inside the trees and produces something similar to humans' September blues?

Sasamaru: Thinking like this, they have more than enough reason to scatter the leaves, don't they?

Of course, this is all an unthinkable fairy-tale.
I'm aware of this, but I've always had this aspect of looking at things this way.

Hiyo: ...So, that's why.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: It's nothing. Ah, yes. There's a story about why these mountains' trees wither in the autumn.

Sasamaru: Story?

Hiyo: Yes. It's a legend circulating in this school about a "Crying Devil."

It was an autumn day.
A devil arrived at the mountains. Their flowers were splendidly blooming in profusion.

It was a crybaby devil.

This devil liked the autumn very much.

When the autumn—a time when the trees attach to themselves leaves of many colors—came, the devil got excited for no reason.

This devil didn't like doing bad things, but, as the devil it is, it must do evil.

With no other choice, the devil faced the mountain's trees and shouted cruel words.

The devil's cruel words returned like an echo, and, before it realized, the trees too were unanimously speaking those cruel words.

The devil's words had a power called "kotodama."

Despite not wanting to do it, the trees were insulting each other.

"I don't want to say cruel things to my friends!"

After thinking this and enduring it, the trees were then withering one after another.

If you oppose the words of the devil that has the kotodama power, your body will scream in pain.

And each time, the devil shed tears in large drops.
But no one noticed these tears.

He's a devil, after all. It's natural that it performs evil.

But there was one who noticed the devil's tears.
It was a tree growing as if protecting a small grave.

Only this single tree noticed the devil's tears.

"It's painful, it's painful."

Thinking this, the devil took two handfuls of ashes from his pocket.

"One of these two ashes is an ash to live without withering. You may choose one."

One was a very beautiful ash, with a sparkle that makes one want to touch it.

But the other one was a dirty ash that no one wanted to touch.

"I really want to tell you the correct choice, but this is the best a devil can do."

All the trees chose the beautiful ash, but only the tree by the grave chose the dirty one.

It was because that ash, which probably was white by nature, reminded it of a dirty dog it was friends with.

The beautiful ash had no effect.

Most trees withered without being able to do anything.

They all said, "I can't take this," or, "do something," but the devil simply lamented, "I can't do anything."

Among them, the only tree that didn't wither was the one by the grave.

It didn't say any cruel words nor withered.

But all of its friends were withering.

The grave tree shared its splendid flowers with everyone.

"Look, now everyone's the same."

However, the flowers planted on the withered trees also withered, starting from the planted section.

It was because the devil's kotodama was still in effect.

But the grave tree didn't stop sharing its flowers and, eventually, withered too.

And then, a hasty winter came, but only to this mountain.

The devil cried.
He cried very loudly.

"Why does this always happen?"

Even after the end of autumn and the coming of winter, the devil kept crying.

And when spring came, something strange happened.

The supposedly withered trees flowered again.

The tears of the crybaby devil had caused a miracle.

Surrounded by many flowers, the devil was very happy.

Then, spring ended, summer ended.
And the autumn the devil liked so much arrived.

"Hooray."

The devil was delighted, but something was strange.

They were fine in spring and summer, but the flowers withered again in autumn.

It was because the devil was a devil.

The kotodama effect didn't disappear.

And again, the devil cried.
He cried very loudly.

This is the legend of this mountain.

That's why this mountain's trees become withered only in the autumn period.

Sasamaru: Hmm...

It is a mysterious story.

A sad tale of a devil who, despite being kind, could only live as a devil because it was born as one.

It's a sad story somewhat, but you can feel an odd warmth in it.

Sasamaru: So, the fact that this mountain's trees wither only in autumn is because that devil's kotodama is still in effect.

Hiyo: Yes. That's the {\i1}story{\i0}.

Looking at Hiyo putting emphasis on the word "story," I can clearly see her stance.

Hiyo also told me this story long ago. She said: "Tales nurture the human heart. Its effects are demonstrated by childhood education, but a tale is nothing more than a tale."

"If you don't recognize them as 'fiction' even after becoming of age, it's like you're personally saying that you 'were unable to fully become an adult' in the course of growing up."

Looking at her expression, I can tell this hasn't changed.
No, it hasn't changed exactly because she has grown up.

Hiyo: In fact, this story is also called the sequel to the "Hanasaka Jiji."

Sasamaru: "Hanasaka Jiji."

"Let's make flowers bloom on the withered trees."

Sasamaru: Aah. So, the grave the tree was protecting was the grave of the dog that the couple was keeping?

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: Huh? But the old man scattered ashes over a cherry tree, right?

There's also the Fuyuzakura that blossoms in autumn.

Hiyo: That's an old story.

Well, everything ends if you say that, but...
first, the "sequel to the 'Hanasaka Jiji'" was added later.

Hiyo: I don't know how much of that legend is true, but...after staying at this school, I got used to the autumn of withered trees.

My thoughts stop at Hiyo's next words.

Sasamaru: Got used?

Hiyo: Yes. Strange things do happen. I think it's natural for this to happen.

Sasamaru: ...

I know Hiyo's personality. When she says "strange," it's because she really feels it is strange.

Yes, strangely...
feeling that this is "natural."

It permeates inside my chest very naturally.

This scenery where the trees become withered only in autumn is normal, like the cherry blossoms in spring and the dark green bravely covering the summer.

It is a strangeness that makes you consent with "this is the autumn's scenery" without recognizing it as a hasty winter.

Sasamaru: I wonder if these legends are born because the autumn makes people feel melancholic.

Hiyo: I...wonder.

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: ...I have no idea about that feeling.

Suddenly, Hiyo shows a sad expression, but it immediately turns into a smile.

Hiyo: But, honey. If you say so, then it must be true.

While not knowing the meaning of her words and of the expression she displays for just one moment...

...I remember that Hiyo has always been very logical, but sometimes she shows such an expression.

Sasamaru: ...Phew.

Maybe I'm not used to all this. Eventually, the evening came.

After everything had settled, I decide to take a bath.

At any rate, this is a splendid bathroom.
Inside the steam, its atmosphere emerges as if it was oozing.

The screen made from bamboo is separating this space from the outside world...
making you feel like you were released inside the nature.

The cypresses' faint hue grants calmness, taking off the fatigue simply by looking at it.

I thought nothing would surprise me now, but this bathroom's elegance was enough to overturn this mood.

Okay, I'll wash my body first.

Hiyo: Excuse me.

At this moment, an elegant voice unsuited for this place arrives from beyond the dampness.

Then, the sound of a door opening.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

Inside the dense steam, for some reason...

...for some reason, there's the shadow of a person.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Good work on your daily studies.

The one who is gracefully bowing after saying that is...
a lady whose face I'm very familiar with?

Sasamaru: ...

At this moment, the world's time has probably stopped.
At least my time sensation stops.

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: ......Hiyo?

Hiyo: Yes.

Ah, she's replying. I guess this isn't an illusion.

Which means...

Sasamaru: W-w-w-w-w-w-w-what are you doing!? What are you doing!?

Hiyo: I'm here to wash your back.

Sasamaru: W-w-why!? For what reason!?

Hiyo: Because this is my duty.

Oh my, exactly why is that your duty!?
I'm so shaken that my words reflexively become like Hiyo's.

Sasamaru: No, that's fine! I'll wash it myself!

Hiyo: Please do not mind me, honey. Just think, "ah, I'm so lucky to have someone to wash my back."

I won't! I won't think that! What is that about, anyway!?

Sasamaru: A-a-a-a-a-a-a-at least put something on!

That towel might fall at any moment!! Hey, it's almost falling!!

Hiyo: You mean...inside the bathroom?

Sasamaru: Uh...y-yes, a swimsuit! Something like a swimsuit!

Hiyo: We are deep in the mountains. Also, there aren't swimming classes, so, I judged it wouldn't be necessary and didn't bring it. I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: This isn't the time for a calm reply!!

Hiyo: For some reason, there are school swimsuits for sale at the school store.

Sasamaru: T-then, use that!!

Hiyo: Honey, if that's more to your liking...

In the bathroom...
making her wear a school swimsuit and wash my back.

For an outsider, this is a splendid pervert☆

Sasamaru: No, I'm no...!!

Hiyo: Ah...but the school store must be closed already. Tomorrow. I'll come again tomorrow in a school swimsuit.

Sasamaru: No, it's not that! It's a hindsight-based opinion! It turned into this because there was only one choice!

Hiyo: Hehe. You don't have to be embarrassed, you know? Honey, if you so wish, I will be with any appearance you want.

Sasamaru: Why are you with the smile of the holy mother!? Why is there a Maria here!?

And thus, I somehow let Hiyo wash my hair.
What is this rapid development about?

Sasamaru: (I'm feeling like a hospitalized patient.)

No, I don't know if they do this to a hospitalized patient.
Anyhow, she's a perfect nurse.

I mean, my heartbeat is going crazy now.

Hiyo: I'm sorry, honey.

Sasamaru: A-about what?

Hiyo: Well...it has been several days since you came, but I wasn't able to help you in the bathroom until now.

Sasamaru: Umm, I don't think you should be apologizing about that.

Hiyo: No, it was my negligence. I'm really sorry.

In the first place, it's strange for the word "negligence" to appear there.
Or rather, why are you feeling sorry?

Hiyo: Honey, I had firmly decided to do this when you arrived. And despite that...err, I wasn't mentally prepared.

While biting her lips as if blaming herself, Hiyo pours on my head the water from the bucket.

The moderately cool water slides down from my hair.

Sasamaru: (I wonder...how many strands fell down just now.)

Ominous words naturally rise inside my heart.

Hiyo: ...Oh?

Suddenly, the hand that's holding the bucket stops.

Sasamaru: What's wrong?

Hiyo: No, it's...honey, your hair.

At this moment...
an atrocious heartbeat, incomparable to the ones so far, trembles my body.

Sasamaru: W-w-w-w-what is it? What? What!?

I am not flustered.

Sasamaru: My hair? My hair!? I-i-i-it's not thin at all! I've been strangely bothered by it for a while now, but lately, it has not reached a level where you can clearly see it! It hasn't! No, not, nay, absolutely not!!

I repeat, I am not flustered.

Sasamaru: Aaaaah, yes, that's right. What a blunder. My hair becomes neat after it absorbs water! That's why it looks thin. Aaah, what a blunder! I forgot to tell you this! My mistake!

I'll repeat as many times as needed. I am not flustered.

Hiyo: Umm...

Sasamaru: Whaaaat is it now!?

Hiyo: Well, honey. I found a gray hair in it.

Sasamaru: Ah, it's only a gray hair...

Chill down.

Sasamaru: If it stands out too much, could you pull it off for me?

I mean, please pull it off.

Hey, they say "gray hair multiplies if you pull it off," right?
So, I'm completely okay if it multiplies, whether it's gray or red hair.

No, I'm not really bothered if my hair is thin or not.
That's not what I'm talking about.
Hey, you laughing over there. Let me be very clear about this.

Hiyo: That's not good at all.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: It's not just gray hair. When you pull it out, it wounds the hair's root and, as a result, it affects the other strands.

Sasamaru: Affects?

Hiyo: Yes. Through the cells, even the other hair roots take damage...and become easier to fall out.

Sasamaru: Fall out!?

Hiyo: In the worst case, hair will no longer grow in that place.

Sasamaru: Waitaminutewaitaminutewaitaminute!?

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: B-but they say that gray hair multiplies if you pull it off, right?

Hiyo: Yes. But the number of strands don't actually grow, you know?

Sasamaru: ...What do you mean?

Hiyo: Yes, gray hair multiplies if you pull it out. But, as I just said, it damages the hair root. Summing up, it damages the melanocyte, which produces the melanin pigment at the hair root.

Hiyo: Therefore, the hair growing after that will not only become gray, but will also spread this effect to the other strands.

Sasamaru: ...In short, pulling gray hair won't increase the number of strands. In the worst case.........it reduces?

Hiyo: Yes.

OOOOOOHHHHHHH!!!

Sasamaru: Aah, I'll never pull out my gray hair again. Never again pull out. Never again.

Hiyo: By the way, honey. What are you talking about?

Sasamaru: No, it's nothing. It's nothing, so, it can't be something, can it?

Hiyo: Is that so? Ah, well then. May I apply the shampoo?

Sasamaru: Yes, please.

I mean, before I realize, Hiyo is taking care of me.

Hiyo: Then, excuse me.

Hiyo mixes the shampoo in her hand with the water she scoops up from the bucket.

Sasamaru: So, you dilute it with water.

Hiyo: Yes. The market shampoo is often thick and may soak into the pores if used as it is.

Sasamaru: Soak into...the pores?

Hiyo: There's no problem if you wash it, but...if it clogs the pores, the hair may fall easier. So, I'm diluting it like this.

Sasamaru: Hey, the hell was I doing until now!?

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: Aaah, was it the accumulation of that? Was it? So, all of my pores are already sealed from the shampoo? I have to purify them!!

Sasamaru: Ah, but I didn't use shampoo in the past. But, unfortunately, I used it after going to auntie's home. What's going on? What's happening in my scalp? What on earth is happening!?

Hiyo: C-calm down, honey. Even if you use the market shampoo as it is, it will come off if you rinse it well.

Sasamaru: REALLY!?

Hiyo: Yes. I'm diluting it with water just in case.

Okaaaaaay.

Good heavens, Hiyo. Hahaha. You're so mischievous.

Rub, rub.

Rub, rub, rub.

Hiyo is washing my hair.

Hiyo: Is somewhere itchy?

Sasamaru: It's fine.

This feels good.

In a very skillful manner, Hiyo is uniformly washing my hair very, very carefully.

Sasamaru: Haaa...

Enough to make me unintentionally sigh.
This feels like a massage.

Maybe she knows all and every pressure point, or maybe she simply washes well.
In any case, this feels like paradise.

I forget the passing of time and entrust my body to Hiyo.

My excitement from a while ago feels like an illusion.

Sasamaru: (Hmm?)

After calming down, I finally realize.
Hiyo's hands are trembling a bit?

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: Ah, yes?

Sasamaru: ...

Is she...nervous?

Hiyo: I-I'm sorry. I'm not washing it very well, am I?

Sasamaru: No, that's not true.

But your trembling hand...

Hiyo: Umm, this is my first time washing someone's hair. I'm sorry, I asked to do it but can't do it well.

Sasamaru: ...

What am I saying?
Of course this is her first time washing someone's hair.

Despite that, Hiyo wants to be helpful.
She's washing my hair while thinking this, you hear?

Sasamaru: Thanks, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: It feels really good. As if this were your main job.

Hiyo: No, you don't have to force it. If I'm clumsy, just say so. I don't mind.

Sasamaru: No, you're good.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: It's true. I want you to keep washing me forever.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: ...Thank you very much, honey.

I felt that Hiyo's mutter blends with the sounds of the water rinsing my foaming hair.

Hiyo: Then, I'll take up your offer...and wash your body now.

Sasamaru: No, no, no! I'll wash it myself!!

Hiyo: Is that...all right?

Hiyo: ...Umm.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: I, umm...Honey, I don't think your hair is thin.

Sasamaru: EH?

Sasamaru: Err...

Again.
On the third night after arriving at school, I am here in the bedroom.

Looking around the room, I see four futons lined up.

Sasamaru: I may be inexperienced, but please treat me kindly.

I kowtow and make a deep bow.

Writing this down, it gives the impression of a very respectful greeting, but the kowtow is nothing more than a formality. It's not a well-received behavior.

Hiyo: Go ahead, honey. I've already laid down the futon.

Sasamaru: I-I'm very grateful.

As suggested, I walk to the futon as if I was a criminal climbing the 13 steps of the place of execution.

Slowly, very slowly, with awkward movements.

By the way, the 13 steps is a Western idea, the so-called unlucky "13."
Its origin is Judas, who is said to have betrayed Christ.

However, this is incorrect. Judas is called the 13th disciple or the 13th apostle, but he is the 12th disciple. The "13" is when you include Christ himself. Also, they say Christ was crucified by the Roman Empire on the 13th day of the month, but some documents say the execution day was on the 14th or on the 15th, without proof it was on the 13th day. Furthermore, the day Eve—who was enticed by a serpent—enticed Adam, the day Noah built the ark to escape the great flood, and the day the Babel Tower was destroyed by God's fury are all said to have been on the 13th day. But this was all appended later.

So, the "13" has no relation to Christianity? Some people say this, but we can't ignore the fact that the Code of Hammurabi, famous for "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," lacks the 13th article. But if this fact about this Code, said to have been compiled at around 1760-1750 BC, was made on purpose, then there's the possibility that the number 13 was seen as unlucky since then. Also, in Norse Mythology, it is said that the Ragnarok occurred when Loki, the uninvited 13th, arrived when the 12 gods were preparing a feast. Summing up, it appears the number 13 had an unlucky impression since a long time ago and became what it is today after being used in all forms thereafter. You might think, "so, everyone started thinking the 13 is an unlucky number, so, there's no problem if this is 13 too, right?" By the way, Japan's places of execution had no steps, so, they can't have 13 steps.

Sasamaru: (...Phew.)

A-all right! I've calmed down a bit after expanding bits of knowledge in my mind.

The "Sasamaru Time" is in perfect form today too.

Hiyo: Honey? Why are you kowtowing on top of the futon?

Sasamaru: Eh!?

Why?
I wonder why.
Because that's the Japanese spirit?

Harutsuge: ...

Then, Harutsuge is staring at me.

Harutsuge: ...

Without saying anything, she lies down and covers herself with the futon.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: There's no need to worry, honey. The other day, Harutsuge too...

Harutsuge: Yes, I said that yesterday, but, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: Yes?

Harutsuge: Don't spoil him too much. He should lay out his own futon.

Sasamaru: Aah, she's right. It's as she says. My bad, I spaced out.

Yes, I must watch out.

Hiyo: But I'm doing this willfully. It's not his fault.

Sasamaru: No, I'll do it myself.

Hiyo: Are you...sure? Well, if that's your wish, honey...

Hiyo says this with a disappointed expression.

...By the way.

Araragi-san is soundly sleeping today.

After she heard that I'd be sleeping here, Araragi wasn't specially against it.

Well, given her nature, I thought she wouldn't be against it. But still, she really is sleeping soundly.

Harutsuge and Hiyo reacted differently, but I can tell they're feeling some confusion about the change in their situation.

But Araragi-san is soundly sleeping.
She's so healthy.
She's so herself.
She's so a middle-aged man.

Hiyo: Then, honey. Good night.

Sasamaru: Okay, good night.

Hiyo smiles sweetly and lies next to me.

Sasamaru: (Okay, let's sleep, then.)

Then, I lie down, too.

...Wait.

Sasamaru: (The hell I can sleep here!!)

How do I say...I didn't realize this yesterday, but this room has an incredible sweet smell.

Maybe it's because I'm no longer worried about "what do I do if they find out?" like yesterday. Now, I can calmly look at the situation I'm in.

Now that I'm more calm, I'm noticing things I didn't notice yesterday

When I say sweet, I don't mean a sweet taste. I mean soft or perhaps fluffy.
I can't compare it well, but it's a very gentle smell, as if enveloping me?

Yes, it's the one you feel "Ah..." when approaching a young girl.

That one where you feel startled and dizzy for one moment.
Yes, that one.

Sasamaru: (Oh, no!)

At this moment, I'm forcefully conscious that I'm a male.

At this point, I'm no longer able to stand up.

I can't tell exactly why I cannot stand up, but I think that you all, very wise readers, can guess my present situation.

Sasamaru: (W-wrong! I'm not thinking anything improper!)

But my body is reacting by itself.
Youthfulness is running rampant, disregarding my consciousness and my thoughts.

This is how it is. This is how it is.
It's the situation itself that destroys the cage of the beast hidden inside the men.

But normally, this reasoning doesn't work with girls.
It requires practice to request understanding of a man's physiology.

Although, an adult woman who's already fully aware of the bitterness and sweetness will simply smile "tee hee, how cute <3" and end it there.
In any case, this is dangerous.

My heroic blade is creating an unnatural mountain on the futon.

Sasamaru: (Well! Suu Sasamaru! What will you do!?)

For the time being, I'll try the cover-up tactic of turning to the side in order to camouflage the unnatural shape of the futon.

It is my usual habit of placing down the left part of my head when I go to sleep.

Araragi: ...Uuh.

The back of Araragi, who is sleeping in exactly the same position as me, trembles.

Sasamaru: (A-Araragi is...awake!?)

Today, Araragi is seemingly sleeping but is in fact awake?

Calm down.
Surprisingly, you can tell if a person is sleeping or not by looking at the breath's frequency.

With her back to me, Araragi's breath frequency is awfully high for a sleeping person.

Her shoulders moving up and down are strangely fast for a sleeping person.

Sasamaru: (I wonder if she...can't sleep.)

Even if she's a middle-aged man, the insides still are that of a girl.
It's natural that she's bothered with a man sleeping next to her.

Moreover, part of me has gone completely wild.

This situation has no room for objection.
It's an uneasy situation.

If I'm going to disturb her sleep like that, then it's best if I sleep in a different room.

Araragi: Hmm...I know, bankprez...A sneeze is a hearty "achoo! urgh..." I'm still inexperienced and can't do it well, but I'll do my best.

She's sleeping!
Yes! Araragi is soundly sleeping!

It appears the breath's high frequency is because she's talking with the bank president in her dream!

I'm relieved for now.
But the situation hasn't changed.

Also, just by keeping still like this, Araragi's smell is arriving at my nose whether I want it or not. It is changing into a dangerous temptation, like letting a hungry person smell something that stimulates the appetite.

Sasamaru: (Araragi really has a good smell.)

No. I'll be unnecessarily conscious if I keep thinking this.

Then, as if running away from her, I turn over to Hiyo.

Hiyo: You can't sleep?

Sasamaru: (Mmnngghh!!)

Close call.
I promptly block my mouth with both hands just before spouting out.

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: W-well...you are still awake, Hiyo?

Hiyo: Of course. I'm not allowed to sleep first, honey.

Just who on earth won't allow you?

A little sister in front and a middle-aged man behind me.

If you look only at the names, this should never be a situation that creates a mountain of rage around the hip joint, but, oddly, these girls are too charming.

I mean, their smell is dangerous.
My eyelids are drowsy and my shoulders are exhausted, but the necktie's tip is like, "buhraaaaa!"

...Conclusion.
If every night will be like this, I'll die from a breakdown.

I must work out a countermeasure.

There's something I've been thinking about since then.

I've been thinking all the time after I made my decision at that sea of withered trees.

Sasamaru: (But...many things happened...today.)

After matching with my eyelids that have finally fallen, I look back on today's events.

Sasamaru: (Everyone...happily ate my meal.)

Much has happened since this morning.
I'm sure much will happen tomorrow, too.

Sasamaru: (I have to work hard tomorrow, too.)

I have no time to stand still.

Ah...

Sasamaru: It's so strange. I feel we're in autumn, but it doesn't look like autumn.

Hiyo: I too was surprised the first time I saw this.

Sasamaru: Are the trees of this school like this the whole year?

That's right.

//subchapter
The Proposal
September 14 (Monday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

The next Monday, one week since then.

In the end, I couldn't find any "countermeasure" and now I am forced to struggle every night with the succubus.
Now, I'll learn the God's teachings and obtain as soon as possible the strong mind of a bishop, but...

I don't care about that.

I've been following my decision from that day.

Every day I'm persistently greeting, not overlooking any chance, and striving in order to socialize with everyone.

I don't mind if they think I'm "annoying."

At first, I wanted them to get used to the every day with me.
I wanted for them to know, without any reasoning, that I'm here.

Of course, I never intended to lack respect, but...

Sasamaru: (But, it's finally here.)

Yes.
I was eagerly waiting for this day.

Going to school as usual, sitting in my seat as usual, in the usual classroom.

But at this moment, different from usual.

Exactly.
I was eagerly waiting for this moment.

Onitake-sensei: Good morning, everyone. Before starting the lesson, there's a topic I must discuss with you all.

An excursion, a field trip, or a school trip.
These things are no big deal.

The event I was eagerly waiting for is...

Onitake-sensei: I think you're all aware, but we'll soon enter the "Ayanashisai" season.

Ayanashisai.

It's the traditional autumn event of this school, the Yumemidori Academy.

In short, a school festival.

Onitake-sensei: As you know, the Ayanashisai is not a school festival open to the public. It's also not a festival secretly held in a specific place. It's purely for the students aspiring to become artists.

Along with confirming it, this is also an explanation for Araragi and me, who have never experienced the Ayanashisai.

Hiyo has experienced it last year, and Harutsuge, the last year and the one before.

Onitake-sensei: Namely, it's a type of contest where you will be tested as artists.

The "Ayanashisai" is the Yumemidori Academy's traditional event.

Every year hosted when the autumn arrives, it is a school event from this art school.

There are two points we can call rules.

First...
"the assigned colors are the theme."

The girls...
and my uniform's colors.

"Red."

In this school, every class is assigned a color.

We, the "red team" students, will strive to create a work of art with this red as the theme.

Onitake-sensei: Therefore, you will face the Ayanashisai as a single class and create one work of art.

Onitake-sensei: Each work produced by each class will come to light on the very day of the Ayanashisai and collide with each other. The fruits of the youngsters' creativity will clash.

And one more rule.
"To complete the work of art with the cooperation of the classmates."

The creativity and passion of each student will clash and create a single work of art.

We won't create it separately. Inside this framework of fate called classroom, each one's individuality will clash, becoming a single work of art.

In short, it's a team production.
The work created as a result will be judged on the day of the Ayanashisai.

Onitake-sensei: Ayanashisai. It is a creation ceremony where the worlds, the fangs of the young lions, devour each other.

After saying that, Onitake-sensei is with a euphoric expression, as if she was entranced by her own representation.

Onitake-sensei: ...It is a creation ceremony.

The teacher takes a peek at us.
Why did she say it twice?
And her pose is slightly different from before.

Onitake-sensei: And I want to ask your opinions about the work our red team will create.

At this moment...
there's a strange silence, characteristic of a time like this.

A feeling like everyone is the concerned party while also not being the concerned party.

Onitake-sensei: How about it? Does anyone have a proposal?

An air with a bit of nervousness.
An air characteristic of this moment, when you look down, thinking the teacher will notice if your eyes meet.

Onitake-sensei: Of course, it doesn't have to be right now.

But...
I was waiting for this day.
I was eagerly waiting for this moment.

Sasamaru: Teacher.

At this moment, the one who first raises his hand is me.

For one moment, a noisy sound rises in the classroom.

Sasamaru: I have a proposal.

I needed an opportunity.

An opportunity to turn the "Four Noble Ones" again into the "Four Noble Ones."

It had spilled from between my fingers before I noticed.
The opportunity to once more obtain the treasures, the irreplaceable "those days."

In order to continue being "ourselves."

A very small opportunity.

Onitake-sensei: Hmm. Interesting. Then, Suu. Go ahead and say it.

That's why I'll propose.
I'll propose the work of this "red team."

Sasamaru: Yes, it's...

Sasamaru: ...to bring back to this school him who got separated from his friends.

//opening here
//video

July 7, the bamboo grass soars toward the heavens.

It is puffing up with pride, with the labels of everyone's wishes on it.
This is the reason that the bamboo grass is believed to be the object in which our ancestors' spirits dwell.

The Tanabata festival.

The once-per-year spotlight of the "bamboo grass."

"Orchid,"
"Bamboo,"
"Chrysanthemum,"
"Plum blossom."

"The Four Noble Ones."

But the "bamboo grass" is not in here.
It is simply a character in another story, the Tanabata festival.

It is similar to the one that governs the summer: the bamboo, one of the four praised as a noble plant.
But it is not bamboo.

Hiyo: B-bamboo and bamboo grass—sasa—are almost the same...

I know that.
It was her kindness.

And also the sympathy of the friends who accepted it.

The granted seat of the bamboo.
But "bamboo grass" is "bamboo grass."

It can't become "bamboo."

...It can't become bamboo.

?: Hey, you over there.

Sasamaru: Eh?

It's after school, a bit after the classroom events.

I am looking around the school building to accomplish a certain objective, but...
suddenly, an unfamiliar student calls out to me.

?: Yes. You, looking around and acting suspiciously.

I-it's...me, right?

The moment I turn over...

For some reason, the girl gasps after our eyes meet.

Sasamaru: Err...

?: Y...you're a student from the red team, right?

The girl asks while pointing to the uniform I'm wearing.

Sasamaru: Yeah, that's right. And you are?

?: Oh my. Are you interested in me?

Sasamaru: Well, I simply asked that from the conversation's flow.

?: Yes, blue! The color of youth!

Sasamaru: Huh?

?: Blue! The color of the clear skies. The color of the origin of life that is the ocean.

Sasamaru: ...

What's up with her? Is she all right?

?: And blue is the cool and calm one in sentai series. It's overlaps a bit with the role of black, but it's actually different.

A small one unexpectedly appears from behind her!

?: Blue! Fascinating humans since ancient times, it's the~...

Huh? Is she inhaling?

?: The color of colors!!

...Err, I wonder if these two are from the blue team.
From their introduction, I don't think they're actually from the mulberry team.

Wait, they said something like "king of kings" just now.
That's an idiomatic expression, you know?
You just made that up, right?

?: Summing up!

The girl glares after sternly pointing at me.

?: Blue is better than red!

That's what you wanted to say?

Sasamaru: (So, this is a declaration of war.)

The battle, the Ayanashisai has already started.

The blue team.
Yumemidori Academy's design course.

?: Blue is always newer than red! Always ahead of times than red! Yes, blue is...

And she's still talking.

Aaahh...
...
...may I talk back already?

I too am a member of the red team. I can't lose in spirit right at the start.

Sasamaru: But the Edo period blue coin came before the red one, right?

?: Eh?

?: ...W-what did you say?

Sasamaru: The Aosen blue coin. It was the popular name of the 4 mon copper coins issued in Meiwa era, year 1768. Made later, the Akasen, the red coin, was the popular name of the 4 mon copper coins circulating in Bunsei era, year 1821, so, the red one came later. The later one is newer, right?

?: T-the blue and red coins?

Sasamaru: Yes, the blue and red coins.

?: Is that so? I'm smarter now, thanks.

Sasamaru: You're welcome.

?: Still, you sure know the strangest things.

Sasamaru: I get that a lot.

?: ...

Sasamaru: ...

?: That is why! Blue is always ahead of times!!

Sasamaru: Hey, wait a minute. You're not making sense.

?: Booyah.

Sasamaru: Wait, you too! If you have something to say, come here and say it!

?: By the way, what's your name!?

She's not listening.

Sasamaru: Err, I'm Suu Sasamaru. Nice to meet you.

?: ...

Huh? Why is she blushing?

?: ... (I knew it)

Did someone say "I knew it" in a low voice just now?

?: So, your nickname is "Sasayan"!!

Or so I thought. She says this after returning to her plain self.

Sasamaru: (Or rather, she's too energetic.)

I pull myself together and ask.

Sasamaru: Err, what's your name?

?: Ehhhhh!? You don't know who I am!?

Yes, I don't.

?: Blue. The clear...

Sasamaru: Enough about that. Tell me your name.

?: Eh, b-but I always say my name after this introduction.

Not my problem.

Sasamaru: I already know you're from the blue team, okay?

?: Don't trouble big sis!

Someone got angry.
I mean, you two are sisters?

Ah, I give up.
Err, I'll simply call the front one "Aone (nickname)" and the back one "Aomai (nickname)."

Sasamaru: And Aone(nickname)-san. What business do you have with me?

Aone: Oh my, do you wanna hear?

Sorry. I think she was a bit "annoying" now.

And she completely ignores the Aone (nickname).
It means this is already decided in my mind, you hear? Are you okay with this?

Aone: Sasayan, do you know which class won last year's Ayanashisai?

Sasamaru: Ah...no, I don't. I've just arrived here.

Aone: Hehe. Of course. Of course you don't.

Ah, now I vaguely know who won.

Aone: Blue. The color of mystery. Blue. The primeval color.

She starts.

Aone: Yes...blue...

She starts "inhaling" again.

Aone: Then, let me tell you! The one who won last year was my, my blue team!!

Zero unpredictability.
Or rather, why did you say it twice?

Aone: There's no doubt that the blue team will win again this year! No matter how much the red team tries, it's impossible to win against my blue team!

//Choice
The blue team is amazing.
The red team won't lose.

//1st choice

Sasamaru: Good. I can feel your high spirits. I'll work with all I have.

Aone: Huh?

Sasamaru: Ah, and congratulations on your victory last year.

Aone: T-thank you.

Aone: ...

Aone: I mean, taking into account last year's results, the one who will win this year is my blue team!

Sasamaru: So it seems.

Aone: ...

Aone: ...H-hey, aren't you annoyed after being told that?

Sasamaru: But it's a fact the blue team won last year, isn't it?

Aone: Y-yes.

Sasamaru: Then, there's no doubt it will be among the nominated ones. Though, we still don't know this year's results.

Aone: N-now that you mentioned...

Sasamaru: Long story short, did you want me to think that "the blue team is great"?

Aone: Y-yes. That's right.

Sasamaru: Then, there's no point in bragging about last year's accomplishments. It is amazing that you won last year, but this year, we have to make things lively with this year's project.

Aone: Ah, now I get it. You're pretty smart.

Then, after showing a face as if she perceived something, Aone...

Aone: The red will never win against the blue!!

...changes her phrase. Completely.

//2nd choice

Sasamaru: You're quite something.

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: I mean, your fighting spirit is amazing.

Aone: Eh? Eh?

Sasamaru: But we won't lose.

I state it.

Sasamaru: We'll face you with this ardor.

It'll be the end if we lose in spirit.

Aone: ...

Aone is looking at me as if she was taken aback.

Aone: Ahem.

And she clears her throat once.

For one moment, I think I saw a joyful smile on her lips.

//choice end

Aone: I'll ask you, then. Sasayan, you cross the pedestrian walkway when the lights are on which color?

Sasamaru: On...green-blue.

Aone: And when it's red?

Sasamaru: I stop.

Aone: Do you understand?

Aone leans forward.

Why is she so elated with success?
And where in the conversation just now did you see victory and defeat?

Sasamaru: Well, I might cross when it's blinking. Though, I really shouldn't.

Aone: Eh?

The moment I say this, Aone's movements suddenly stop.

Aone: Y-you delinquent.

Wait, delinquent?

Aomai: A bad person.

Wait, who are you two?

Aone: In any case, Sasayan. If you're such a delinquent, all the more reason to win.

Aomai: Yup.

I don't see how that relates to this, but I guess she doesn't plan to lose regardless of who I am.

Aone: The one who will win is my blue team! There, repeat it!

Sasamaru: Err...

Aomai: The one who will win is my blue team.

Aone: All right!!

Got it. Go home already.

Aone: Well, have a good day! Don't forget to review what I just said!

Aomai: Don't forget~

Then, the two leave without telling their names.

Sasamaru: Ah, I get it.

At this moment, I realize.
The current season is autumn.

Autumn means typhoon, correct?

Hiyo: Sorry for making you wait, honey.

Hiyo appears, like we've arranged.

Hiyo: Oh. What is the matter, honey?

As soon as she arrives, she sees my indescribable...
or rather, my exhausted face and tilts her head.

Sasamaru: Ah, I was thinking that this year's typhoon will devastate the school buildings.

Hiyo: Huh?

Sasamaru: No, it's nothing. Let's go, then.

Back to square one.
Today, after the classes.
We finally start mobilizing in order to create our work of art.

It is the "red team's" work that I proposed.
First, we need to lay the groundwork.
But, of course, I have already finished it.

Since when the morning sun shone in that sea of withered trees...
until the long-awaited moment that is today, I've been refining the work's idea that I proposed to the Ayanashisai.

I didn't propose this idea on a whim.

What is most important for this work is "numbers."
The work will never be completed if I mistake these numbers.

So, before I start it, I'm walking around the school one more time in order to confirm the numbers one last time.

Now, only Hiyo and I.

Sasamaru: ...

We two, huh.

When that characteristic air flowed at the time the teacher asked everyone's opinion, I was the first one who raised the hand.

I'm not trying to boast, but I did that with a firm and resolute determination.

Then, I told everyone my idea.

And its result is...

...this situation now, where only Hiyo is beside me, is the answer.

Sasamaru: Thanks, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh? For what?

Sasamaru: It's nothing.

...For looking at me with pure eyes without a hint of distrust.

As if saying, "it's natural that I stand beside you like this."

As if it was so natural that she has no idea why.

Sasamaru: (I can't keep whining.)

I have to carry out my belief.

Sasamaru: (It's all right.)

I have to believe this.

Sasamaru: (I'm sure it'll be all right.)

False courage or bluffing, I have to keep believing this.

...Even if Hiyo becomes disgusted with me and distances herself.

Otherwise, I won't be able to reward her for being beside me like this.

So, I must walk forward.

It's all right.

As long as the scenery of that day doesn't fade, I'm sure it'll be all right.

Sasamaru: The student council does it?

After reporting our work results to each other, the topic changes to the Ayanashisai.

Now that she mention it, I don't know much about it.

I heard about it at the orientation week before enrolling here, but only superficially.
In short, I have just a smattering knowledge and don't know well the main parts.

Hiyo: Yes. The student council performs the Ayanashisai's work inspection.

That's why Hiyo's words are a bit unexpected.

I think this is where I'm at fault.

I was eagerly waiting for this day and polishing my ideas, but I don't know the essential parts.

I rush recklessly after deciding my objective...
and overlook the important points.

This is my bad habit.

Hiyo: I'm sorry. I haven't explained it to you, have I?

I think Hiyo is fed up about this. But she'll never joke about it.

As if she was prohibiting herself from all acts of criticism about me, even if it becomes a mere funny story later.

Maybe that's why I can rest assured and throw my doubts at her.

Sasamaru: Ah...I wasn't expecting this. I thought they'd try to be fair and decide this with a poll from all the school's students or something.

Hiyo: I see. You say that they represent the students, but a system where the student council decides everything will be a hotbed of unfairness?

Sasamaru: Ah...I won't go that far, though.

Hiyo has quick wit. Her words become really bitter when she doesn't need to be considerate.

Different from me, a so-called "normal" who feels only a doubt at every vague haziness, she has enough talent to promptly see through the essence of things and express it with words, but...

Hiyo: Honey, your concern is reasonable, but the reason the student council is judging is exactly to preserve fairness.

Sasamaru: Eh?

We all have a "color."

Each one of this school's classrooms is assigned a color.

This is one of the rules of the school festival: "The assigned colors are the theme."

Yes, just like our uniform is red...

...we must create something with "red" as the theme for the Ayanashisai.

In the same way, the class assigned with the blue color has blue as the theme.
And the class assigned with yellow has it as their theme.
Just like this.

But...

Sasamaru: The "transparent student council"?

Hiyo: Yes. That's the nickname of Yumemidori Academy's student council.

"Clear."
"Colorless."
"Colorless student council."

The student council has several other aliases.

Numerous are its aliases, but they all indicate one single factor.

{\i1}They have no color.{\i0}

The student council has no color exactly because each class has their own.

Summing up, this indicates that their nature is neutral and impartial.

Most importantly, this means that {\i1}they aren't dyed by any color.{\i0}

Red,
blue,
or yellow...

...they can keep being transparent and colorless, without being dyed, oozed, changed, or affected by these colors.

Hiyo: That's why they always judge from an impartial position. This is what it's been said for generations.

Sasamaru: ...That's kinda amazing.

It has been surprise after surprise since arriving at this school, but...
I listened to yet another story that magnifies this school's awesomeness.

Sasamaru: In any case, that "transparent student council" is the one who decides the winning class.

I'll do my best.
Though, my objective isn't the "victory."

Sasamaru: Let's do our best to win.

What I desire is beyond it.

Hiyo: Sure, honey.

To make Hiyo smile to me like this...

To make those two smile like this to me someday...

...I'll believe and take action.

Yumemidori Academy festival.
The Ayanashisai.

Sasamaru: (The student council will judge each class' work, huh.)

After being conscious of this, I cautiously observe the students around me.

Ah, I wonder from which class that student is. I have few acquaintances, and I can't distinguish everyone by the face. I naturally chase the passing students with my eyes.

Although, it's difficult to distinguish from which class they are by their uniforms.

No, the uniforms are classified by colors. Even with the overall small number of students, I naturally cross paths with other students while walking in the hallway, but...

...their clothes are diverse.
The Yumemidori Academy does prepare a school uniform, but it doesn't enforce its use.

Due to the nature of this being an arts school, plain clothes are allowed...
or rather, we can infer its pride as a "prestigious school" from the fact that it prepares the uniforms.

Originally, uniforms exist to indicate that one belongs to an organization.

It doesn't matter if it's a school or a police uniform.
A military uniform is essentially the same.

Obviously, all of this is to display to outsiders that "I'm a member of such-and-such," but it's also to make everyone self-conscious that they're a member of the organization and always be careful not to behave inappropriately.

It is the self-consciousness of a student from the prestigious school, Yumemidori Academy.

Although, it's a different matter if fitting into a mold is good for an artist.

It's not actually a contradiction, but, on this foundation, with glimpses of conflicting mentalities, each student is given their own independence.

So, in an extreme case, there are students who list the uniform as casual clothes with the simple reason of "I liked the design."

For example, even if they are worn out clothes or a remodeled uniform, it's recognized as "one's stance as an artist."

Well, the point is that there is excess freedom, but...
"freedom is different from disorder."

In fact, Hiyo is always in her casual clothes.

Sasamaru: Oh.

I part with Hiyo and walk around the school when...
I arrive at the next place I'm supposed to meet her.

According to the school's structure, this place fits as the next meeting point allotted to us, but...

Sasamaru: (Looks like Hiyo...isn't here yet.)

This place is quite deep in the school.

The school is built on extensive grounds, and I'm still not familiar with its geography. So, I thought I was late and hurried here, but...

Sasamaru: (I'll wait here.)

Judging from the places we're in charge of, she should arrive through the hallway.

We're almost done with our checking.
Our preliminary check will finally end after I join with Hiyo.

Sasamaru: (Hmm?)

It is at this moment that I feel something uneasy.

It might not be appropriate to call it an accident.

Sasamaru: (I think I hear voices of quarrels.)

But looking here in the hallway, I can't see anyone around.
Even after straining my ears, I'm hearing nothing from the nearby classrooms.

It might simply be a trifling matter, but something's on my mind. Yes, it's a feeling like a stain on the wall that entered my vision.

It's like I can sense it, but I'm unaware of it. Like not knowing "what is bothering me" and giving up in thinking too hard, and then, saying "must be my imagination" and ignoring it.

Sasamaru: (Is it...outside?)

It appears this building has several blind spots.

This side doesn't appear to be used much. Not many people should look there.

And no one would take a peek behind the building.

Sasamaru: ...!

It is the wall stain that I finally found.

It isn't by accident. It's something made with an intentional "bad faith."

One male student is surrounded...

...by several students wearing a different color from him.
It's very easy to understand, clearly a "cornered rat" situation.

Four people are surrounding him.
It's hard to tell from their worn-out clothes, but you can guess.

The ones surrounding the student are from the "white team."

Sasamaru: (So, it's them.)

It has been a short time since I arrived, but I've already heard rumors about the white team.

Conversely, this also means that you'll hear about them regardless if you're a newcomer or not.

And these rumors are {\i1}always not good ones.{\i0}

White team male student A: Hey, hey, Jin-chan. It's no fun if you don't try to resist, you know?

The white team students are laughing in joy while surrounding him.

And then...
they thrust him away.

Judging from the color, the one with an impeccable uniform that contrasts with the white team's ones must be a student from the "black team."

Given that he's well-dressed and wearing gloves, he's giving a somewhat methodical impression.

Jin: ...

He's looking downwards, so, I can't see his expression, but...
there's no doubt he's a victim of the white team fellas.

Araragi: Good morning. Let me join too.

And the one who appears is...

Sasamaru: (Araragi!?)

The small person who enters the circle is really Araragi.

Araragi: Really, the white and black teams sure are on good terms. Let the red team join too~

White team male student A: ...

Araragi: Oh, you played so much that you're all muddy. Nice, nice. I want to keep my childish spirit forever, too.

After saying that with a smile, Araragi helps the thrust black team boy stand up.

Araragi: Aah, you're all scratched. Sorry, everyone. We're going to the infirmary for a bit.

White team male student A: ...Hey.

Araragi: Then, then, we're going~

White team male student A: Hey!

Araragi: Hmm?

White team male student A: You again? What is it now?

Araragi: "What" what?

White team male student A: This has nothing to do with you, right? Or are you Jin-chan's girlfriend?

Araragi: Unfortunately, I'm not his girlfriend. But you looked like you were having fun.

White team male student A: Worthless. Hey, stop that foolish, insincere smile.

Araragi is still broadly smiling.

Araragi: Hey, what you do will eventually come back, you hear?

White team male student A: Huh?

Araragi: And we'll go to the infirmary. Let's play again when he's recovered, 'kay?

White team male student A: Hey. Do you think we won't touch you just because you're a girl?

Sasamaru: ...!

Araragi: Eh...

White team male student A: Every single time, we're already fed up with this. We're living our nice school life, but you always butt in.

The moment he raises his fist...

...I'm already stomping on the floor and running.

White team male student A: Wha...!

The one who gasps is the white team student about to punch.

The tall flower that is obstructing as if protecting the orchid flower is...
the plum blossom.

The plum blossom of the "Four Noble Ones," Kashi Harutsuge.

Her hand shakes off the fist of the white team student about to punch.

White team male student A: Y...you again?

Harutsuge: Again, you say...and you {\i1}again{\i0} haven't learned.

Araragi: Ooh, Harutsuge-chaaan.

Harutsuge: Hey, you from the white team. Even if that was a bluff with no intention of hitting, that's too much against a girl.

White team male student A: T-that wasn't a bluff!

Harutsuge: Is that so? Unless you're very far away, you can distinguish if a fist will really swing down or not, you know?

White team male student A: Tch! Small one. You can't do anything without bringing that large woman, eh?

Araragi: Hmm? Hmm. It's true that I can't do anything, but I want you to stop calling Harutsuge-chan that.

Harutsuge: Hey, hey, small fry. You got it all wrong. Araragi-kun didn't call me. I was arbitrarily stalking Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Is there a stalking that's not arbitrarily?

Harutsuge: So, that's your jab. Nice one, Araragi-kun.

White team male student A: Tch.

The place's air changes in one moment.
No wonder the white team student clicks his tongue.

It's always like this.
The red team's "small one" somehow hears about uproars.

If one tries to drive away the nuisance, the red team's "large one" arrives.

The place's air changes into a ridiculous one simply by having the two of them together.

Harutsuge: Kashi Harutsuge, here with love!

Araragi: Bang.

//text on screen
Bang

The problem is the "large one."

When push comes to shove, you can remove the small one by force, but...
not the large one.

Should I call it overpowering?

No one tries to pick a fight with Kashi Harutsuge.
They're all overwhelmed.

No one has ever exchanged blows with her.
Nevertheless, everyone knows that "they can't win against her."

She is a natural ruler.
The surrounding hostility subsides simply by having her standing there.

Harutsuge: You with the boring face over there. This is how it is, so, break up this gathering right now.

White team male student A: Stop acting so cocky.

Harutsuge: He's not jabbing. What a boring man.

The white team man doesn't know, but Kashi Harutsuge has always been like this.

She is, in fact, stronger than anyone here.
She learned martial arts at a young age, and her progress had an extraordinary talent that didn't allow any followers.

But no one has heard rumors about her exchanging blows with anyone, ever.
Everyone knows about her strength that wasn't even demonstrated.

She holds back the ruffians by merely standing there. She is an existence possessing the inborn title of "strongest."

It's not surprising that some people call her "elder sister" with adoration.

White team male student A: After the small one arrived...I knew you'd come too. We called Nobu-kun today.

Harutsuge: Oh, him. It's been a while.

White team male student A: As you know, Nobu-kun is the boss of the white team. Things won't go as you want this time.

Harutsuge: Calling him boss. Haha, that's rich. Is the white team a gang or something?

White team male student A: Enjoy your composure while you can. Nobu-kun! Get her!!

As if these words were a signal...
the danger prickling the place slides in.

As if the tip of a sharp blade was pushed onto the air created by the two girls.

The opened fissure enlarges very fast. The man appears as if sliding or perhaps oozing out of this cut-up crevice.

Nakarai: You again, Kashi-chan.

This blade has the shape of a person.
Unshapely, rough, and wild.
Nevertheless, it is a blade releasing an awfully dazzling brilliance.

Nakarai: I believe I've warned you. Don't get in our way again.

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: Looks like my underlings are having quite a hard time. So, today I personally came to deal with you.

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: Hmm? Something's wrong? What? You got cold feet?

Harutsuge: What the...

Nakarai: Huh?

Harutsuge: I've always wondered. Aren't you embarrassed after saying that?

Nakarai: Huh?

Harutsuge: "I believe I've warned you. Don't get in our way again."

Harutsuge: "Looks like my underlings are having quite a hard time. So, today I personally came to deal with you."

Harutsuge: Pff!

Nakarai: Y-you bastard.

Harutsuge: Ah, sorry. That really hit my...Pfff, Wait, time out, time out.

Nakarai: Kashi!!

Harutsuge: I said time out!

Nakarai: Ri-right.

...And a short break.

Harutsuge: All right, fine. Come now.

Nakarai: H...Hey, don't get carried away.

Nakarai: You're in so much trouble. Now you've made me angry. Really angry. You're dead.

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: Huh? Got cold feet? You crying? Are you crying now?

Harutsuge: Pfff!

Nakarai: Huh?

Harutsuge: It's no good...he's too talented. Is he trying to kill me with laughs?

Nakarai: She's useless. Really no good. She finally made me angry. You're over now.

Nakarai: The school fellas seem to acknowledge your superiority. But that has nothing to do with me.

Nakarai: 'Cause you never fought with me, did you? You don't know how dangerous I am, do you? You're useless. How do they call someone like you? Ah, that's right. A big fish in a small pond.

Harutsuge: Pff. Haha.

Nakarai: You shouldn't rush out to the road. A car will hit you. You'll get hit by a reckless vehicle like me if you don't walk on the sidewalk.

Harutsuge: Hahahaha.

Nakarai: Huh? Got cold feet? Realized that I'm dangerous? Did you? You're over now. Over.

Harutsuge: ...I lost.

Harutsuge puts her hand on Nakarai's shoulder.

Nakarai: Huh?

Harutsuge: Your boss is amazing. He's a comedy genius. I'm even jealous.

White team male student A: He...hey, stop screwing around! Don't make light of Nobu-kun!

Harutsuge: Aaah, this is useless. You are, how do I say...half-baked. In that aspect, this boss is amazing. He's serious from start to finish.

Harutsuge: If you want to make others laugh, at least do like the boss here.

Nakarai: Hey, wait.

Harutsuge: Yes, what is it, genius?

Nakarai: Hey, shouldn't you apologize while you still can?

Harutsuge: Apologize?

Nakarai: Aah, but it's too late to apologize. Really late. I mean, you're so annoying.

Harutsuge: Hmm. I got it. You joke by immediately denying the introduction. Nice one. I learned something today.

Harutsuge: But I regret to say that you have no one to jab. I have Araragi-kun, but you have no one. This difference is huge, you know?

Nakarai: You little...

Harutsuge: You all from the white team should think harder. A joke is a living being. It dies from loneliness if no one jabs at it. Your boss has this much talent, but why aren't you making use of it?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: What is it, Araragi-kun?

Araragi: That Mr. Boss is trembling over there.

Harutsuge: Ooh, a new act.

Nakarai: ...

Harutsuge: Thump-thump.

Nakarai: Yo...

Harutsuge: Yo?

Nakarai: You zuuuuuuuck!!

Harutsuge: Sorry. I have no idea what you're saying. Say it again.

Nakarai: You bastard. Don't get carried away, dammit. I'll kill you.

Harutsuge: Pff.

Nakarai: Hey, what are...huh?

Harutsuge: No, I don't know what he's saying, but it's so fun. I take off my hat to your talent.

Nakarai: You rousy!

Harutsuge: Shit. I want to learn from you, but my abdomen is...

Nakarai: You rloven!

Harutsuge: My belly hurts.

Nakarai: I'll...I'll kill you!

Nakarai's...
might hasn't weakened, but colors of panic have clearly appeared in his expression.

He raises his fist. A future where his fist will hit Harutsuge...
and a future where "she might be able to avoid it." Both of these predictions must have crossed the corner of his mind.

These are the only outcomes he has.
He isn't predicting a future where she "takes the blow."

Nakarai: You rittle tlash, dammit!!

You can avoid a flying object.
But to receive it is frighteningly difficult.

This is the same with a fist strike.

But Harutsuge {\i1}receives his serious attack while laughing{\i0}.

Harutsuge: And...err, master. Ah, my mistake. Nobu-kun, right?

At this moment, Nakarai senses her quality of "ruler" for the first time.

But he doesn't want to accept it.
He can't accept it.

Nakarai: So, what about it!? Huh!?

Harutsuge: Nobu-kun of the white team...White Nobu-kun.

Harutsuge: And White Pig-kun...ah, my mistake.

Nakarai: Where did you get that "pig" from, dammit!?

What I see when I arrive there is a man {\i1}rotating{\i0} in the air.

The next moment, the man collapses on the ground together with a thunderous sound.

Harutsuge: Ah.

And the one most surprised at this scene is Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Sorry. You suddenly charged at me. I tried to dodge, but your momentum was so good and...

Harutsuge approaches the fallen man and tries to pull him up.

Harutsuge: Are you all right? Did it hurt?

Nakarai: Rh...Rhut up! Rtop merring asound!!

Harutsuge: Pff.

The appearance of the man shaking off the helping Harutsuge's hand is indeed that of a turtle flipped over.

Harutsuge: Sorry. Once it hits my funny spot, it's hard to...

Nakarai: No, I'll kill, kill, killkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkill you.

Harutsuge: Wait. Let's first pull you up.

Nakarai: I'll kill, ki, kill, ki.

Harutsuge: Pfff.

Nakarai: Pfffwhaaaaat!?

Harutsuge: Hey, what are you going to do with all that talent? It's too much for me.

Araragi: Well, Harutsuge-chan, you're bad too. Way too bad.

Harutsuge: Who'd have thought this school would have a student so talented. Aah, I still have a long way to go.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, why is he your reference? Why are you so unsparing with performances?

I don't know how, but the situation has already been settled.

Araragi: Ah, Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: Are you all right, Araragi?

Araragi: Y...yeah.

Sasamaru: Got it.

That's good, then.

Araragi: Eh...were you worried about me?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I happened to see you by chance.

But Harutsuge is here, too. There's no need to worry.
But I still worry anyway.

But Harutsuge hasn't changed at all.

"Kashi Harutsuge."
She was known in our hometown as "the elder sister you should never pick a fight with."

All classmates, upper students...and even adults, they all say, "I'm no match for her," and open the way for her.

It appears her ruler trait is going strong at this school, too.

On that subject, I remember Hiyo talking about it.
"When I came to the school, Harutsuge-san was already reigning as this school's ruler."

And she added, "without doing anything in particular."

Well, she's a brave woman, born under such a star.
A person that always "settles any fight without violence."

One person was blown away a while ago, but this is a very rare case.
Enough to remain in history books.

Harutsuge was laughing, but...
I wonder if it was fun enough to make her get careless.

In short, Harutsuge's "carelessness" is not toward the opponent's attack. It's toward her "power intensity" itself.

She never resorts to violence because she's {\i1}way too strong.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Oh yeah. Is he all right?)

And the black team man surrounded by the white team fellas...

Jin: ...

Sasamaru: Hey, are you all right?

Jin: ...

He is silent.
Looking down and trembling.

Sasamaru: What's wrong? Did you get hurt?

Jin: Why...did you butt in?

Sasamaru: Eh?

...Butt in?

Jin: Why did you butt in on my wonderful suffering-time!?

Whaaaa?

Jin: And it even was a multiple play, you hear!? Such a chance doesn't come easily in society! You can only experience this now, when we are students!!

Depending on the point of view, this might sound as a sharp social sarcasm, but, in my head, the only word that comes up is "pervert."

Sasamaru: Err...well, please excuse me if I'm wrong, but...weren't they doing awful things to you?

Jin: Awful!? Awful is to call them awful for offering such a passionate play free of charge.

Huh, huh?

Jin: ...And that's how it is, ladies and gentleman. If you happen to come across a similar situation, please ignore it. It is a request from Jin Reiji.

Leaving these words, the man leaves.

Sasamaru: ...

Well, that's new.

New but...huuuh?
I mean, huuuh?

It was a somewhat strange act there, but I joined with Hiyo after that.

Sasamaru: How was it?

Hiyo: It's as you said, honey. I put it together in these papers just in case.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

...Well.
With Hiyo's cooperation, we finish the preliminary check.

We can finally start working on the Ayanashisai's project.

Sasamaru: Next, we have to secure the materials and the tools.

We have already listed everything we'll need for the project.

But naturally, several materials and tools are necessary to create one work.

"An artist creates something from nothing."
But this is merely a way of thinking. The materials and tools aren't created from nothing.

An artist simply changes the shape of the material and creates the work of art.

A painting is no different.
Using the tool that is the brush, you change the shape of the material called paint and complete one painting.

That's why...

...the students of this school can freely use the materials always stored inside it. When this is not the case...

...in short, in the case of a particular raw material you have to order, or in the case of an amount more than necessary, you have to request to the school.

It's the same as with the cooking ingredients.
Due to the school's location, it's very clear that you can't simply go over there and buy it.

And you decide these matters with the student council and the school.

Sasamaru: (The student council, huh.)

The only students "without color" from this school, also called the "transparent student council."

The one who I know is...

Sasamaru: (Waka-san, right?)

I suddenly feel depressed.
But this is something I suggested. I must go ahead.

Hiyo: Oh my, what a nice timing.

Sasamaru: Huh? I think I'm hearing somethi...

//sound only
Mi, Mi, Milk-chi.

Sasamaru: What is this song!?

Wait, song? This is a song!?

Waka: Hmm.

Sasamaru: Ah.

...And the one who comes (I should say, as I feared) is Waka-san.

Waka: It's you.

She makes a very blunt expression the moment she notices me.
Clearly in the negative direction.

Hiyo: Waka-san, good afternoon.

Waka: Good morning, big sis!

Next, she makes a very blunt expression the moment she notices Hiyo.
Clearly in the positive direction.

Hiyo: Are you going to buy milk tea again?

Waka: Y-yes! Milk-chi is the universe!

Well, I really don't know what that means.

But she's going to buy milk tea again...
wait.

Don't tell me, did she already drink all of that from yesterday!?

Sasamaru: You really like milk tea, don't you?

Waka: Hmm?

Waka: Hey, you said all those abusive words last time. Even if you say that you have awakened to the wonderfulness of milk-chi, I'll not give you a single drop. I'll buy up today, too.

Sasamaru: You're fully loaded with spots to jab, but first, I said abusive words?

Waka: You said it. You took an attitude that milk-chi is not the center of the world's drinks.

Sasamaru: That's it!?

Waka: Look. It's an honor as a human to drink so much milk-chi that someone jabs, "is your blood made of milk-chi?" Didn't you learn this in class?

Sorry, my teacher only taught things that fall under common sense.

I feel grateful for not having that brainwash education.

Waka: I'll ask, then. What do you drink after a meal?

Sasamaru: Tea...maybe?

Waka: Look. It's milk-chi, all right.

Sasamaru: Ah, no. I kinda like green tea.

Waka: Green tea, boo.

Wooow. She irritates me so.

Waka: Are you an old geezer?

Sasamaru: What's that arbitrary decision about? There's no problem in liking green tea.

Waka: I don't mind you liking it, but you're an old geezer. A big, definite old geezer.

Sasamaru: Well...I might have some old man-ish tastes.

Waka: Also, your hair is a bit thin. Exactly like an old ge...

Sasamaru: It's not thin!!

Waka: ...Oh?

Sasamaru: What? What are you talking about? Huh? I don't know what you mean.

Waka: But you see, compared to other boys of the same age...

Sasamaru: It's not thin, you hear!?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Let's talk about light refraction. A hair that's not thin but appears thin is due to the effect of light refraction. Light has the characteristics of both wave and particle. As a wave, the light reflects and refracts, but...

//text on screen
*Grrrr*

Waka: Hey...you crying?

Sasamaru: I'm not crying! There's no reason to cry, is there!?

Waka: One more thing. There's a trait of yours bothering me.

Sasamaru: What? What is it? What now?

//text on screen
*Grrrr*

Waka: You're a bit short.

Sasamaru: Ah, that's true.

Waka: Compared to boys your age...

Sasamaru: Well, I didn't quite grow taller. It was troubling me for a long time.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Hmm? What's wrong?

Waka: You're a bit bald...

Sasamaru: I'm not bald!!

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Huh? I don't get it. I don't get it. Aah, I don't. What is it? What?

Waka: ...I understood. I understood way too much.

Waka-san is nodding with a meek face, but I don't get it at all.

Waka: Ah.

A student is coming from the hallway.

It's Araragi.

Sasamaru: Hey, Arara...

The moment I say this...

Waka: Father!

What did you say!?

Araragi: Whoa! Waka-san!

She said "whoa." Araragi just said "whoa."

Waka: Good afternoon.

Araragi: G-good afternoooon.

Just from this, I can perceive their relationship.

Wait, she called Hiyo "big sis" and Araragi "father." Is Waka-san building a family here at school?

Waka: Are you taking a walk, father?

Araragi: Ah, yeah. Kinda like a walk. U-umm, Waka-san?

Waka: What is it, father?

Araragi: Well, about calling me "father."

Looks like Araragi is bewildered.

I mean, why "father"? I understand Hiyo being the "big sis" but...

...I'm not jabbing, okay?

Because the other party is Araragi.
A flawless middle-aged man.

Even if she becomes a "father" or "daddy," there's no reason to become agitated.

It's exactly because I know Araragi...
that there's no meaning in the foolishness of asking, "why is she calling you that?"

Waka: Yes. Father, is there a problem in calling you father?

Araragi: Well, you see...

Waka: Yes, father. You may ask anything, father.

Araragi: Waaaaaahh.

Then, Araragi leaves.
Alas, pitiful Araragi.

But this is no time to stand still.

I must request the project's materials to Waka-san.

To Waka-san of the "student council."

Sasamaru: (...Now, I get it.)

Looking closely, Waka-san's uniform is quite different from ours.

Our uniforms highlight our classes' colors, like the red team or blue team, but...
her uniform doesn't specially highlight the "what color?" aspect, and its appearance is greatly different.

This is also true for her hat, but, above all this...

...that almost transparent flower is displaying their nature.

"The transparent student council."

Waka: What are you staring at? Gross.

Ah, directly being called "gross" really hits the spot.

Waka: Well, I have a question for you. Between being killed after going through a painful experience and spending the rest of your life in peace, you prefer the former, don't you?

Sasamaru: Your grammar is weird! Wait, you didn't even let me choose it!

But, well...
maybe it's a bit late to say, "I knew it," but...

Sasamaru: (She completely hates me, right?)

I wonder if our encounter was bad.

Summing up, the cause is the milk tea.

What a frightening milk tea.
I didn't think it would have the power to control even human relationships.

Sasamaru: (What should I do?)

It's kinda hard to ask, but...
I must do this.

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-san. You're a member of the student council, right?

Waka: What about it?

Sasamaru: I have a request. Could you hear me out?

Waka: I refuse.

But of course.
No, I must not give up so easily.

Hiyo: Waka-san. I have a request. May I?

Waka: Yes. Ask anything!

Well, that makes sense.
Waka-san will gladly accept if Hiyo asks for it.

Sasamaru: Thanks, Hiyo. But I'll try asking her myself.

Hiyo: But...Waka-san seems a bit...

From her way of talking, I guess she reacts like this only to me.

I appreciate Hiyo's consideration, but this is something I proposed.

I must take responsibility and ask her myself.

Waka: W-what? Secret talks now?

Sasamaru: Well, it's not a secret talk.

Waka: Are you full of yourself for hogging big sis? Shit.

Why is she about to cry?
Wait, why is she crying in the first place?

Hiyo: Waka-san. He wants to be friends with you, okay?

Waka: Uhh.

I just saw an out-of-this-world unpleasant face.

Waka: Is that true?

Sasamaru: Yeah, of course. I want to be your friend.

Waka: But I flatly refuse. Ptui.

This girl is too unrestrained. What on earth should I do?

Hiyo: Waka-san. I ask, please.

Waka: Ah, uhhh...if you say so, big sis.

Thanks for setting the table, Hiyo. I'll do my best.

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-san.

Waka: Aah, what is it?

I can tell she's forcing even from 100 kilometers away.

Aargh, I've got nothing to lose.

Sasamaru: We're thinking of starting our work for the Ayanashisai.

Waka: For the Ayanashisai?

Sasamaru: Yeah. So, may I make a request for the necessary materials?

...I'm really clumsy.
The outcome is all that matters here. I should have simply asked Hiyo.

Waka: Ah, got it. I'll prepare it. Could you tell me the contents?

Sasamaru: Huh!? You'll do it?

Waka: What is that face about?

Sasamaru: Well, but...

Waka: You need it to create your "project," don't you?

Sasamaru: Y-yeah.

Waka: Then, say what you need, immediately.

Sasamaru: Yeah! What we need is...

Waka: ...Understood. I'll gather it as soon as possible.

Sasamaru: I'm counting on you.

It was kinda a disappointment.

Hiyo: Hehe, it went well.

Hiyo is relieved, too.

Sasamaru: Waka-san. Sorry for acting rude earlier.

Waka: Your rudeness was clear from the moment you couldn't understand the charm of the milk-chi. If you're going to apologize, apologize to the world.

...Huh?

Sasamaru: Waka-san?

Waka: What is this offensive sound? Ah, it's your voice.

Sasamaru: ...

Huh, huh?

Sasamaru: Err...about the Ayanashisai's work.

Waka: What, you still want something? Say it. I'll prepare it.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: What's wrong?

Sasamaru: ...Oh yeah, I suddenly want to drink some milk tea.

Waka: Sure, sure. I hope the world soon realizes the mistake that is you.

So, that's what she means.
She's very loyal to her duty "as a student council member."

And she hates me from the bottom of her heart.

I can consent somehow.

I heard this from Hiyo. Waka-san is so loyal to her duty that the impression others have of her is "businesslike" or "cold."

From her attitude toward Hiyo, it's hard to imagine this. But the students without much involvement with her have this impression.

Waka: Well, I'll take my leave to prepare it. Big sis, have a good day.

Hiyo: I'm counting on you, Waka-san.

Waka: Leave it to me.

Sasamaru: Please, Waka-san.

Waka: Shut up. Hit the little toe along with the ring toe.

Sasamaru: ...

...Well, we finished our objective...
in an okay manner.

...And the preparations are now complete.

Today, we finish everything we had planned beforehand.

Sasamaru: Hiyo. Again, I'm counting on you.

I lower my head.

Hiyo: Oh, no, honey. It's natural that I serve beside you.

Hiyo: You don't need to be considerate of me. Please think of me as the air around you and work toward your objectives.

Sasamaru: There you go, exaggerating again.

Hiyo: Hehe. You should simply think about the air when you want to order something.

This aspect of Hiyo is the same as always, but I can't hide my feelings of gratitude for her choosing to create the work together with me.

Hiyo: And will we make it in the classroom?

Sasamaru: No, I borrowed a place for that.

We're creating the work to present at the Ayanashisai. There's no problem if we do it in the classroom.
But every year, almost no one does this.

Hiyo: Honey, you were surprised, weren't you?

Hiyo smiles, maybe after remembering me when I heard about this.

Sasamaru: Well...it certainly was surprising. But I can agree after thinking about it.

This isn't like a normal school festival where they clearly know the agenda, like "this class will do a haunted house" or "this one will do a coffee shop." At the Ayanashisai, everyone approaches the festival day without announcing their agendas.

In a manner of speaking, everyone is preparing an ace up one's sleeve.

Sasamaru: This feels...like we're deceiving each other. I'm not all comfortable with it.

Hiyo: Hehe. Honey, {\i1}this is the Yumemidori Academy.{\i0}

Well, it's as she says.

School festival means contest.

Not to mention the students who passed this school's exam. Everyone will change their expression at the words "project creation."
Although we're amateurs, this awareness is high.

Besides, there's a fundamental problem: this race of people called artists is a proud one.

They are proud, but everyone is different in the "oppressive against others" aspect. But the root of everyone is "pride."

They loathe the fact of having their projects, which are created after projecting their own world, displayed before completion.
Those who can create it openly are very few.

So, I accepted it so far.
What surprised me was that it isn't necessary to report the project's contents to the school.

Normally, the school has a grasp of each class' agenda for the festival.

Each class requests what they want and receives permission only after the school has decided that "this is acceptable."

Otherwise, they won't be able to deal with any issue that might show up nor be able to take responsibility.

Also, there's the reason of the festival losing its balance if the projects become too partial. It's normal for the school to adjust this aspect.

But in this school, no one needs to tell anyone "what they're creating."
They keep it a secret from other classes, of course, but also from the school.

Sasamaru: ("Because 'rules' would appear the moment there's a person to give permission"...huh.)

Originally, art means freedom.
Art is born exactly because the ideas are free. The art is able to become art because it is free.

Despite that, {\i1}this school{\i0} says that to establish a "school permission" is to put the cart before the horse.

They said: "Putting it in rougher words, rules means to establish a fixed standard and to not accept anything else."

This equals to narrowing ideas, to take away the freedom of imagination.

As Hiyo said, this might be the reason for the Yumemidori Academy to be a prestigious school.

High teaching level and strict regulations alone aren't the conditions for a prestigious school.

To prepare an environment to produce talented individuals is also a very important condition.

Harutsuge said, "I'll make a different project."

The meaning of the Ayanashisai is for "the class to cooperate and create one single project," but this method is also allowed.

Allowed...or maybe it's an implicit understanding.

In short, this is like using the system against it. Long story short, you claim that you "divided the work."

At the last moment of the presentation, you assert that it's "a single project" by including all the parts.

This isn't a very praised method, but it was often seen in the school's long history.

So, Harutsuge will create a different project.
As a person from the same class, she'll take the public stance of "I was in charge of part of the single project."

Araragi...
didn't make herself clear at that time.

She'll probably help Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: ...

I inhale and take a deep breath.

It's all right.
I have a firm grasp of my feelings.

I won't crumble down.

Hiyo: Then, where will we do the work?

As if accurately guessing my feelings, Hiyo asks while trying to change the mood.

I'm being supported by her consideration.

Sasamaru: Yeah, I'll show you.

Hiyo: I'm counting on you, honey.

"Honey."
The word that she always uses when calling me.

Sasamaru: (Which reminds me, since when did Hiyo start calling me like that?)

"Playing house."

Sasamaru: (Ah, that's right.)

I'm sure that's when Hiyo started calling me "honey."

Araragi: Welcome back, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: I'm back.

Araragi: ...Where are the other two?

Harutsuge: Who knows?

Araragi: ...Okay.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Araragi: ...They were together with Waka-san today.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: I wonder if Sasamaru-cha...Suu-kun has started making the Ayanashisai's project.

Harutsuge: He might have.

Araragi: ...Harutsuge-chan, you're fine with it?

Harutsuge: With what?

Araragi: Well...I mean...

Harutsuge: I already said it. I'll make my project by myself.

Araragi: Aren't you...pushing youself too hard?

Harutsuge: I'm not pushing myself too hard.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: What?

Araragi: Tsundere.

Harutsuge: You're wrong. I don't plan on dere-ing.

Araragi: So, you're aware that you're tsun-tsun now.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: You should just not push youself too hard.

Harutsuge: ...And what about you? Aren't you pushing youself too hard?

Araragi: I-I'm...

//subchapter
Starting Work
September 15 (Tuesday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

Today's morning class starts with Onitake-sensei's homeroom...

...but not quite. The chime has already rung, but the teacher hasn't shown up at the classroom.

...Hmm?

Onitake-sensei: Yes, exactly. Do it as always.

There she is.

I can tell from her shadow that she's on the other side of the sliding door.

Sasamaru: (What's the matter?)

But she's not coming in.

Her voice is coming through the tiny opening of the door.
Is she on the phone?

Ah, I can see she's holding a cellphone.
I knew it, she's on the phone.

Onitake-sensei: What did you say? The ones from the "organization"?

It is the teacher's surprised voice.
And next...

Onitake-sensei: Heh...Hahahahaha!

Sasamaru: (Ehh!?)

Her laughter suddenly echoes.

Onitake-sensei: Of course. {\i1}So, that's how it is{\i0}...hahahahaha!

W-w-w-w-what!?

Onitake-sensei: Ah, excuse me...Heh, don't be so scared. I know. When I truly feel angry, "that day" will arrive again. I won't erase one whole country anymore.

W-what is she...talking about?

Onitake-sensei: "Rira-Hitohi-Rigunu."

Then, she hangs up the phone and enters the classroom...

...with a somewhat empty, somewhat sad expression.

Onitake-sensei: A person's...fate...eh.

She mutters, as if looking up at the sky through a transparent ceiling.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Umm, honey. Onitake-sensei is a person that teaches splendid lessons, but err...well...

Sasamaru: You don't have to say it all, Hiyo.

I finally understand...
the reason for the sense of distance between the teacher and the students in this class, and the reason for the unique air during the homeroom.

This is indeed the fate of a person.

If this illness that everyone felt to a greater or lesser extent is called fate, then it's also fate that {\i1}it hasn't healed even after becoming an adult{\i0}.

Needless to say that, since this day, I'm looking at the teacher's behavior with lukewarm eyes.

It is as if being left behind by the silent time.

As if going astray in the crowd of people called era.
In this place one even feels a reserved virtue.

The place I chose for the project creation is this water mill.

Then...
the materials requested to the student council arrived surprisingly fast.

Sasamaru: They really outdid themselves with all that amount.

Looking at the vast amount of materials that arrived, I'm a bit taken aback.

Yes, this is to create our project. But if I were the person in the position to permit such an amount that makes one knit one's eyebrows, I wouldn't give it so easily.

It's a surprise that it passed the examination, but I can't hide my surprise at the fact that they prepared all of it so quickly.

Hiyo: It's because this is the Yumemidori Academy.

This is how it is, but, even if I understand it in my mind, I still get surprised after actually experiencing it.

Also, the amount transported here isn't all of it. The remaining is at the school building.

We plan to transport it here as soon as we run out of materials.

Sasamaru: ...All right!

With my feelings made anew, I face the work.

Sasamaru: Let's get to work, then.

Hiyo: Yes.

And then, Hiyo and I finally start the project of us two.

First, there's enthusiasm.

Enthusiasm branches into passion and desire and calls forth several others.

Determination, faith, ideal.

At first, what the project had wasn't neither the materials nor the tools. It had these things without shape.

And the project is a work to give shape to {\i1}these{\i0}.

This is by no means something extravagant.

With the stunning everyday accumulation, the work is slowly, slowly, really slowly taking shape.

That's why we can't lose focus.

A loose mind leads to a loose hand, delivering a great effect to the project's completion. This is something every creator learns firsthand.

But one must not lose sight of the objective.

One must not forget to create it while having fun.

Sasamaru: What is the formal name for the peculiar pain caused when you eat shaved ice? There, Hiyo.

So, I give the "sign" to Hiyo.

Our "sign" since a long time ago.

Hiyo: Ice-cream headache. This is not a popular name; it's the formal medical term in Japanese. That's it, honey.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Oh yeah, it somehow got attached.

Hiyo: What has?

Sasamaru: You calling me "honey."

An outsider might suspect our relationship after listening to it, but this is like a nickname to us.

Hiyo: T-that's true. Before I knew it, I was calling you like that.

Sasamaru: Yesterday, I was thinking when you started calling me that. It was since that time, right?

Hiyo: T-that?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Do you remember when we all were "playing house"?

For one instant, Hiyo's makes a surprised expression.

Sasamaru: Is something wrong?

Hiyo: Ah, i-it's nothing.

The make-believe we did when we were children.
It's one of the plays we did in our childhood.

I forgot who gave the idea, but I didn't specially oppose it.

Hiyo, Araragi, Harutsuge, and me.
The group of four that was always together.

Of course, I was the husband.
There was only one man, so, there was nothing I could do.

The wife was Hiyo.

At that time, Hiyo called me "honey."

That's where it started.

Hiyo: T-that's true. It was...since then.

Sasamaru: I knew that's where it started.

Hiyo remembered it, too.

Still, the person herself had forgotten about the nickname's origin.

Well...

There's a large pond right after leaving the water mill.

I think it's more of a lake than a pond. But there's "pond" in the name, so, it must be a pond.

The water flowing to the water mill is connected to this.
Thinking like this, I feel like it's actually a lake, but it's a pond.

The Caspian Sea is also like a lake, but has "sea" in its name.

Although, the water mill isn't being used and the water wheel isn't moving.

Then, I head to school.

Aone: Oh.

Sasamaru: Hey, Tornado Sisters.

Aone: Torna...what?

Sasamaru: No, it's nothing. Good afternoon, Aone.

Aomai: Good afternoon.

Aomai is here too.

Wait, these aren't good nicknames for them.
I want them to introduce themselves if possible.

Aone: Speaking of which...Sasayan, I overheard something.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Aone: Sasayan, your class is making the project separately?

Sasamaru: Eh...

Aone: I heard you split into two groups, Sasayan with Kumigami-san and Kashi-san with Yumeno-san. Why are you doing that? Is that some strategy?

Sasamaru: Ah, well...

Aone: Hmmmm...

Aone looks at my face, when...

Aone: Sasayan, you can't lie, can you?

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: How pathetic. Honestly, you're no match for us if you keep like that.

Aomai: No match.

Aone: If you want, I can persuade those two, you know? We aren't really strangers.

...Certainly, Aone and Harutsuge were studying at this school even before I arrived.

Though they're not in the same class, they must know each other.
They might even be good friends.

But...

Sasamaru: No, it's fine. I got this.

Aone: Really?

Sasamaru: I'm happy you're being considerate, but it's okay. I'm sure it'll be okay.

This is something I must do.

Aone: Hmmmm...

Aone makes a suggestive expression at my reply.

Aone: That's okay, then. Just don't make any poor work, you hear?

She says it as if pulling herself together.

Sasamaru: ...Yeah.

Aone: The one who'll win is our blue team. But don't let us win so easily. A complete victory is so boring. The project won't have any value unless we win after defeating rows of veterans.

Sasamaru: ...

Ah, that's right.
She's neither being considerate nor sympathizing.

{\i1}This{\i0} is how a student from the Yumemidori Academy is.

Aone: There are past cases of the same class creating different projects...but you don't even have to imagine how unsightly they were, right?

Aone: No matter how high the technique used is or how great their tastes are...or how good the finished product is, the Ayanashisai is an event where "we make the project as a single class."

Aone: A class that can't follow the basic rules doesn't have the right to participate. This is like presenting a work that breaks the rules to a prize that follows the rules. They're nitwits who don't realize their rudeness toward the prize.

My feelings are renewed...
by the strength of the feelings included in her every word.

Aone: Don't make it lose face, okay? Sasayan, {\i1}don't make the Yumemidori Academy lose face, okay?{\i0}

I'm about to faint from the pride of being a student from the Yumemidori Academy.

Aone: See you later, then. And try to fairly {\i1}compete{\i0} with us, okay?

Aomai: Okay?

Sasamaru: ...

...They got me.

//subchapter
Shards of Hope
September 16 (Wednesday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

Harutsuge: Good morning...hmm?

Araragi: Good morniiing.

Harutsuge: So, you're alone, Araragi-kun. How unusual.

Araragi is on duty this week. It's not strange that she's the first one here.

Araragi: I think everyone will arrive soon.

Harutsuge: Sure.

Araragi: Who were you looking for?

Harutsuge: I wasn't looking for anyone. I just thought it was unusual.

Araragi: Which means there was someone you were conscious of. You're always so blunt, but a certain someone makes you feel unusual if she's not at the table.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: How about sitting down?

Harutsuge: So, you're finally able to do leading questions, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Well, I had training.

Harutsuge: I'm not consciously acting blunt. I'm merely maintaining a natural distance.

Araragi: Yup, yup. Well, there's a delicious, delicious meal today, too.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: In the first place...what about you, Araragi-kun?

Araragi: Me?

Harutsuge: Yes. What do you think about Suu-kun?

Araragi: He's our friend, right?

Harutsuge: That's a lie.

Harutsuge makes a satisfied expression of "gotcha."

Harutsuge: Not a lie, but that's the lie.

Araragi: That's some difficult Japanese there.

Harutsuge: We know each other since childhood, don't we? You're not someone to keep an odd distance toward a "friend."

Araragi: I-I'm not keeping distance.

Harutsuge: I'll rephrase it, then. Araragi-kun, your distance from the "friend" that I know and from Suu-kun are clearly different.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: Bull's-eye.

Araragi: ...Relationships like that do exist.

Harutsuge: That's quite an intriguing expression, huh?

After saying that, Harutsuge thinks, "oh, no."

This is an unusual, silly joke from Araragi, at least as far as Harutsuge knows.

"This topic is not something to be pursued further."
—is what she thinks.

Because it's rare for Araragi to hide something like this.

There probably are matters that she can't easily talk about.
So, as a friend, she thinks she should wait for the person herself to talk about it.

Harutsuge: There's a delicious, delicious meal today too, right?

Araragi: Sorry. I'm in no position to criticize.

Harutsuge: I don't mind. We're in the same boat.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

The two: Hiyo-cha...Hiyo-ku...

Araragi: ...Go ahead.

Harutsuge: No, no, you go first.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

The two: Hiyo-cha...Hiyo-ku...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Err, seems we wanted to say the same thing.

Harutsuge: It seems so. I don't know if the contents are the same, but it's about the same person.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan...was in contact with Suu-kun the whole time, right?

Harutsuge: It appears so.

Araragi: I wonder why Hiyo-chan didn't tell us.

Harutsuge: That might be my fault.

Araragi: Your fault?

Harutsuge: Because I was avoiding talking about Suu-kun for a while. Hiyo-kun must have guessed it.

Araragi: But why?

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: I got it. That's why we're "in the same boat."

Harutsuge: Sorry.

Araragi: You don't have to apologize, Harutsuge-chan. Me too, I'm sorry.

Harutsuge: I clearly know the outcome. It might not be something worth hiding, but...I can't put it into words. I might not have sorted out my feelings.

Araragi: Me too, maybe.

Harutsuge: Okay.

Araragi: But...I'm sure I was avoiding the topic of Suu-kun. So, it's not only your fault, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: I wonder if we'll be able to do our best with the project.

Araragi: Yeah.

The two look downward.

Both have a positive personality.
If they have time to look down, they'd rather act without delay.

But even knowing this, they can't move.
This is frustrating.

Harutsuge thinks that if this were simply a quarrel, Araragi herself would come to apologize.
This is how she is.

She doesn't care who is right or wrong.
She simply "wants to be on good terms."

But today marks almost two weeks since Suu Sasamaru first arrived at the school.

It's impossible for her to ignore a relationship for such a long time.

Harutsuge: (So, the reason is that serious, eh.)

And this is the same for Harutsuge.

The days are simply passing with both of them unable to move.

This is really...
frustrating.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan is...amazing.

Eventually, Araragi mutters.

Harutsuge: Yeah, she's amazing. She has always been amazing.

Again, Harutsuge answers while being aware that "that's not the point."

Araragi: I wonder if Suu-kun is properly thanking Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: I'm sure he is. He's honest to a fault...and also polite.

Harutsuge speaks, as if reminiscing the past.

But what rises when she says "polite" isn't necessarily just "good things."

Harutsuge: {\i1}His tone has changed,{\i0} but he's polite as ever.

Still, when Harutsuge says this, she has a proud smile somewhat.

Araragi: "Changed," eh.

Again, Araragi falls into deep thought exactly because she knows what this means.

Araragi: Just like Suu-kun changed, we too...have changed, haven't we?

Harutsuge: ...Yeah.

Araragi: Is that growing up?

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge doesn't say anything.
She instead bites her lips.

Araragi: I understood the meaning of "in the same boat."

Harutsuge: Sorry.

Araragi: Don't apologize. If you're going to apologize...

And while speaking, Araragi too bites her lips.

Araragi: ...let's apologize to Suu-kun together.

Harutsuge: You're...right.

The living room falls silent.

Harutsuge: Also...

Araragi: Hmm?

Harutsuge: It's not just Suu-kun who must thank Hiyo-kun...right?

Araragi: Yeah.

Once more...
the living room falls silent.

Only the sounds of the remaining two walking in the hallway can be heard.

Morning. Onitake-sensei enters the classroom like always, and...

...her arm is wrapped in bandages.

Sasamaru: ...

How do I say...she's showing off.

It's a really awkward wrapping. It's clear that she did it herself.

And she's walking while protecting her arm. But she's trying to not look like she's protecting it. This behavior of feigning composure as to not be noticed feels very fake.

Also, she's repeatedly glancing at us.

Onitake-sensei: Hmm? What is it, Suu?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing.

Well...err, seems she really wants us to ask about her arm's bandages.

Onitake-sensei: What, is there something bothering you? Your teacher's right arm is the same as always, ok!?

Hey, this conversation is too unnatural!

Onitake-sensei: Urgh!

Then, along with an expression of anguish, the teacher suddenly holds her arm.

Onitake-sensei: Not yet! It's too soon! Wait for the messenger...for Mephistopheles!

How do I say...it's in a low voice but clearly loud enough to be heard, or a voice subtly in control of the vocal range, or a "low voice where she wants you to notice she's trying not to be heard."

Onitake-sensei: Hah...hah...shit, the awakening time is getting shorter. Although this is fate, that rotten warlock sure implanted something troublesome in me!

Err...
it's no use.

Sasamaru: Umm, teacher...

Onitake-sensei: I-it's nothing! It's nothing!

The hell you want me to do?

In the blink of an eye, the time to create our project has arrived.

Sasamaru: All right! Let's do it!

I'm working on the project after the classes have ended.

Every lesson has contents that are beneficial to me. I'm satisfied just by this, but...
after school, the project for my other objective is waiting.

Honestly, my determination has reached its apex.

"Mere bravado."
It might be so.

Hiyo: Yes. Let's work hard today too, honey.

But this feeling of proactively running toward our objective...
is now very pleasant.

Sasamaru: Phew.

And while I'm working in silence, the water bottle I had placed beside me is now empty.

...Oops.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, wanna drink something?

Looking beside her, Hiyo's drink is also empty.
I was completely absorbed and didn't look at my surroundings.

I'm prone to get careless because Hiyo doesn't say anything that can be called a complaint. I'm almost manipulating her when I start dashing ahead.

Since she doesn't complain...I just have to be careful.

Maybe I should take a breather for her sake, too.

If I keep changing myself little by little like this...

Hiyo: Ah, are you thirsty? Sorry for not noticing.

Saying that, Hiyo stands up while holding her purse.

This way of perceiving things is really like Hiyo, but...

Sasamaru: I'll go buy something. What would you like?

I say this as if covering her proposal with words.

Hiyo: No, please. I'll go for you.

Sasamaru: No, I'm itching to move my body. I'll buy something while I'm at it.

To begin with, I didn't even realize Hiyo was replenishing the drinks and everything else.

Hiyo: Y...you sure? If you say so...

Hiyo won't overdo it if I say it like this.
I'm unable to be cleverly attentive like her, so, I must at least act when I notice things.

Hiyo's consideration isn't restricted only to drinks.
I must thank her for being here with me like this.

Sasamaru: Is black tea okay?

Hiyo: Eh?

Hiyo opens her eyes wide at my words.

Sasamaru: You liked lemon tea, right?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Huh? You don't?

I'm not remembering it wrong.
I'm confident in remembering everything regarding my memories with everyone.

It's just that...one's tastes are always changing.
I wonder if she no longer likes it.

Hiyo: N-not at all. Yes! Lemon tea! Lemon tea it is!

Sasamaru: Sure.

I'm happy it hasn't changed.

Hiyo: I'm sorry. For you to remember my tastes is just...well, unexpected...

Sasamaru: How rude. Is it that surprising?

Hiyo: Not at all. Well...umm, I can't say this well, but...

Hiyo: I'm happy.

Sasamaru: Y-you're exaggerating.

"Of course I'll remember my friends' tastes." I swallow my words about to go out.

Because Hiyo looks really happy.

Tears are slightly accumulating in her eyes.

Sasamaru: I-I'm going, then. Wait a little.

Unwillingly confused, I leave the place as if I was running away.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Ah, Waka-sa...

Waka: So, you anticipated me.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: You anticipated my movements and are trying to monopolize the milk-chi, correct?

Sasamaru: What are you talking about?

Waka: Don't play dumb. You calculated the timing I would buy the milk-chi, came to buy up everything and planned to lavishly drink it in front of me, who will be despairing in grief, right?

Sasamaru: You're still with that milk tea thing!?

Waka: To come up with such a harassment...What an evil man.

I guess I'm an evil man.

Everyone has their own impressions of me, so, I think there's nothing I can do if she thinks of me like that. But what a tough world. Someone has such an impression simply because I came to the vending machine to buy a drink.

Sasamaru: I don't know about the latter, but, to protect my honor, I'll object against the former.

Waka: You say this is not harassment?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Waka: Don't lie to me. Otherwise, there would be no reason for you to be here on this day, at this time, with this timing.

Sasamaru: I feel this can also happen "unexpectedly by chance."

Waka: ...

Waka: Leaving that aside...

Sasamaru: Why!?

Waka: Do you know about the Antitrust Act?

Sasamaru: First, do you know about persecution complex?

Waka: The Antitrust Law is short for "law regarding the prohibition of personal monopoly and the maintenance of fair trade."

Sasamaru: Hey, listen to me. I'm begging you, listen to me.

Waka: Since ancient times, they say a woman's ears are made to not listen to inconvenient stories.

Sasamaru: Something's wrong. Hey, it's wrong. This is very wrong.

Waka: Good, I understand. If you're going to keep getting in my way...

Hey, wait a minute! How did you get to that conclusion!?

Or rather, what did you "understand"!?

Waka: Well, I have a question for you. Between being killed after going through a painful experience and spending the rest of your life in peace, I may kill you, right?

Sasamaru: I have no idea what you're saying! Wait, isn't that last part enough!?

Waka: Farewell, my formidable foe.

Sasamaru: She's laughing! You're laughing from the bottom of your heart, aren't you!?

Sasamaru: ...I'm back...

Hiyo: W-what happened, honey!?

After looking at my state, Hiyo rushes up to me in panic.

Hiyo: You look like you were attacked by a ****** that screamed indistinct things while wavering a kitchen knife!

Sasamaru: Well...it's like I was attacked exactly by that.

Ah, the mosaic now was "shout of triumph," you hear?
She attacked me while raising a shout of triumph, okay? Don't get this wrong, okay?

Hiyo: A-anyhow, let me treat you.

Sasamaru: It's fine, really. I'm exhausted from running away, but most are just scratches.

It's actually easier to avoid when she is accurately aiming only at my vital spots.

I'd be really glad she's used that straightforward pureness with something else.

This century is finished if that girl is in the student council.
But nowadays, a period where the century has just begun, I shouldn't express it like this.

Sasamaru: But, "transparent student council," huh.

The place Waka-san is part of, the only existence in this school that doesn't have a "color."

They single-handedly undertake the role of the Ayanashisai's judges because they have no color, as the clothes she wears indicate.

Sasamaru: How do I say...this school's student council gives a mysterious image, doesn't it?

Hiyo: Mysterious?

Sasamaru: Yeah, like you don't know its true form.

Well, putting it bluntly, this is in part Waka-san's fault.

But even if you leave her apart, this is still my frank opinion from the several days I've spent in this school.

Sasamaru: Though, there's still much I don't know about this school.

Hiyo: No, everyone has the same perception.

Or so I thought. Hiyo says something unexpected.

Hiyo: You're not the only one having that impression of the student council, honey. There are even rumors about the head of the student council not changing for many generations.

What is this school mystery setting about?

Hiyo: Actually, the "transparent student council" is full of enigmas. I think there are very few people who actually grasp its real form.

Sasamaru: But Hiyo, you're good friends with Waka-san, right? Don't you hear anything about their activities from her?

Hiyo: No, not at all. Waka-san doesn't talk about it.

I somehow knew that.

Waka-san is nothing but "big sis love<3" and probably doesn't talk about work.

Sasamaru: Conversely, don't you get curious and ask her about it?

The student council is not a secret organization. I think Waka-san might say something if Hiyo asks her.

Hiyo: ...Now that you mentioned it, I never asked her about it.

Hiyo has an awkward smile while saying this.

Hiyo: How should I say...I think I simply went along with the flow.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Hiyo: "The student council is a secret organization." This tendency started out of nowhere.

Hiyo: Amused, everyone started spreading exaggerated rumors. This has been inherited from seniors to juniors for generations.

Sasamaru: So, it's a taboo to pry into the student council's matters?

Hiyo: Yes. "Mysteries are beautiful because they're mysteries" is what I heard from my seniors when I entered that class.

They are the seniors whom I didn't meet because I was more than a year late.
But wait.

The more I hear, the more mysterious this situation becomes.

Sasamaru: I mean...where's the student council room? We can find out if we head there, right?

I suddenly get interested.

Hiyo: Now that you mention it, I also don't know where it is.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Hiyo: Thinking about it, no one knows where the student council room is. That's the "transparent student council."

Sasamaru: So, that's their setting.

I get the idea.

In short, where does Waka-san come from and where does she return to?
For this school's students, it must be normal to enjoy this mysterious existence.

It's indeed a "transparent student council."

It's a feat to deceive even that Hiyo.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge did what!?

It's some time after our chat that I let out such a loud voice.

At our next errand, the fierce "me, me" battle unfolded when Hiyo insisted with "I'll go this time."
And I lost.

Hiyo returned to the water mill while gasping for breath.

A quarrel.

Getting straight to the point, her story's contents were just this.

"Harutsuge is going berserk against the white team fellas."

Sasamaru: (That's not possible!)

These are the first words that come out.

Yes, Harutsuge is strong.
Enough to win against several large-build men.

But she's not a person to act violently on a whim.

The other day too, she could have easily settled that with strength, but she never did.
This is how she is.

That's why this must be some kind of mistake.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge!?

What I see when I arrive at the scene is a situation exactly as she had told me.

Unintentionally, I stand stock still and doubt my eyes.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge is magnificently standing in the center of the hallway.

There is a white team student who was probably punched with full strength.
The supposed leader of the white team from the other day.

I believe his name is Nakarai.

Nakarai: You...bastard...

Nakarai is trying to stand up, but...
maybe because Harutsuge's strike was too strong, he's unable to stand up, with his legs still shaking.

There are others from the white team talking or trying to help him stand up, but...
their only common trait is that no one is trying to meddle with Harutsuge.

Harutsuge isn't changing her position.
But how did it come to this!?

Sasamaru: Wha...what are you doing, Harutsuge!?

I approach and grab Harutsuge's shoulder.

Harutsuge: ...Nothing.

Without even turning around...
Harutsuge bluntly speaks.

Sasamaru: Did you...punch him?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Did you punch him? Harutsuge!?

Harutsuge: ...

Just like that, Harutsuge turns around as if pinning down her indignation.

Sasamaru: Hey! Harutsuge!!

She leaves the place.

Sasamaru: ...

I can't believe it.

Harutsuge started the fight?
She used violence against a junior while aware of this?

Nakarai: D...dammit, that bastard. It was only a light joke.

Then, Nakarai finally stands up with help from his colleague.

Sasamaru: Just what on earth happened?

Nakarai: Huh?

Sasamaru: I can't believe this. She was violent against someone...

Nakarai: The hell I know. She got frigging angry 'cause of a mere joke.

He spits blood, perhaps because the insides of his mouth got cut.

Sasamaru: A joke?

Nakarai: Yeah. That girl is always, always meddling with us.

Sasamaru: ...

You're wrong.

It's because you are meddling with someone that Araragi comes and...
Harutsuge also comes while worrying about the unlikely event of something happening.

Do not mistake this.

Nakarai: Did you know? She never fights. She always stands there and just glares.

But of course.
That's the Kashi Harutsuge I know.

She doesn't act violently.
She doesn't fight unless it's something really urgent.

Sasamaru: (...Something urgent?)

These guys...made her angry?

Sasamaru: What...did you do?

Nakarai: Huh?

Sasamaru: You did something to Harutsuge, didn't you?

But I can't picture it.
What did they do to make her fight?

She usually settles everything with a joke.

Nakarai: I didn't do anything.

Sasamaru: Don't lie to me.

Nakarai: What did'ja say, bastard?

Sasamaru: Don't lie to me.

Nakarai: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Nakarai: Hmpf, you're saying the same thing. You really make me sick.

Sasamaru: The same thing?

Nakarai: It's you.

Sasamaru: I...what?

Nakarai: We were talking about you.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Summing up, this is what happened.

The white team members were displeased with the red team always butting in.

Their complaint is that Araragi always, always sniffs them out and appears out of nowhere. And Harutsuge appears as her bodyguard.

The quarrel always breaks up when they arrive.
Still, they didn't mind because both of them are girls.

They could convince themselves with "the party's over now that women are here."

The distance between the red and white teams was built on top of this delicate balance.

But there's someone who broke this balance.

...Me.

Now that I have joined the suppressing party, the situation is different.

They're concerned about the start of the rumor: "the white team doesn't fight because they're afraid of Suu Sasamaru."

That's why they...

Nakarai: Let's get him?

White team male student A: That Suu guy?

Nakarai: Yes, yes, Suu-chan. We must teach him a lesson. We have our honor too, you know?

Nakarai: I've kept to myself because they're women, but that big woman irritates me for having the wrong idea. Well, it's Suu-chan for the time being.

White team male student B: Will we do it?

Nakarai: Yeah. Hey, you. Make the preparations to wrench that brat.

White team male student A: Ah...No-Nobu-kun.

Nakarai: Ahn?

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: W-what? Were you listening?

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: You got it wrong. We weren't talking about you. There's that little one in your class, right?

Harutsuge: You're talking about Suu-kun?

Nakarai: Ah, aah! Yes, that Suu-chan...

Harutsuge: Don't call him so casually.

Nakarai: Ahn?

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: Hey, hey. I only fight against you when I'm serious. But I'm not scared, you hear? I'm thinking about your hono...

Harutsuge: Then, how about getting "serious" right now?

Nakarai: What? Wanna do it? Against me?

Harutsuge: Don't know which 'you' it is, but, if you do anything strange to Suu-kun, I'll fight you.

Nakarai: You bastard.

Harutsuge: You're unpleasant. Very unpleasant.

Nakarai: Aah...right. I'll do it, then. You got me wrong if you think I didn't raise my hand because you're a woman. Aah, you'll die. I'll skin and rape you.

Harutsuge: Stop the tedious talk and come. But listen. I'll take you instead of Suu-kun. If I win, you won't lay your hands on him, all right?

Nakarai: You should say that after you win, daammmmiiiittt!!

Harutsuge: Understood.

Sasamaru: (...Harutsuge...)

Hiyo: Hehe.

Hiyo appears out of nowhere.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san...really isn't honest with herself.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Well, let's resume the project, honey. Let's work hard to make it easier for everyone to join, okay?

Opportunity.
I needed an opportunity.

An opportunity to turn the "Four Noble Ones" again into the "Four Noble Ones."
In order to continue being "ourselves."

A very small opportunity.

...My chest becomes hot.

Sasamaru: Yeah!!

I motivate myself on both my cheeks.

I return again to the water mill.

Then, at night.

Sasamaru: Welcome back, Araragi.

Araragi: Ah...I-I'm baaack.

Sasamaru: ...

We greet each other, but something's off. There's a delicate sense of distance, different from before.

But it's all right.

I believe that, someday, we'll become closer than we were in the past.

Fake courage or not, I'll push on forward while believing this.

Sasamaru: Araragi, so, you're on duty today, right? I'm looking forward to the dinner.

Lately, I've gotten used to Araragi's cooking.

Or maybe I should say that I've acquired resistance.

After her duty day came, I realized the meaning of the conversation I had with Hiyo and Harutsuge some time ago.

The duty system of the red team's dormitory changes every Saturday.

Last Saturday, our dormitory was enveloped by a truly dark aura.

Harutsuge: Haaaaaaa. Starting today, Araragi is on duty again, huh...

Harutsuge's loud sigh echoes in the living room.

Hiyo: The digestive medicines are ready. It'll work as a peace of mind.

Sasamaru: (What is this night vigil air about?)

"In the past, Araragi's cooking was..."
She said this, but I thought she was exaggerating.

Araragi said she's a bit of a bad cook, but she's trying her best to make it. You don't have to be so pessimist.

And while I'm thinking this, Harutsuge glares at me as if seeing through my mind.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: ...But...

Hiyo: Ah...that's right, honey. There's a {\i1}trick{\i0} to eat Araragi's cooking.

Sasamaru: A trick?

Hiyo: Yes. It's extremely delicious if you eat it as soon as it's done.

Which means it's not as bad as they say.
Jeez, they really exaggerate things.

Harutsuge: With that, you'll feel only a little bit nauseated.

Sasamaru: Hey, wait. What did you just say?

Harutsuge: It'll get worse with each passing second. It's a fight against time.

Harutsuge: Therefore, eat it. Innocently grab the just-made meal and greedily eat it. Don't think anything.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge. There are three things I want to say and three I want to ask.

Harutsuge: Shut up. I won't allow any words. We cannot waste any second.

Harutsuge: Eat it. And cry. Despair and fear the astonishing **mit time that will eventually arrive.

A few days since then.

To be frank, both were completely correct about the result, but I somehow got used to it.

Along with realizing how powerless a digestive medicine is, I feel like "my body's structure was re-constructed."

Sasamaru: I'm looking forward to the dinner.

I repeat it and leave the place.

Araragi: Ah...

Even I think this is barefaced.
I'm aware of this.

Even so, I can only face forward.

Araragi: Wa...wait, Suu-ku...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

When I turn back, Araragi is with a somewhat confused expression.

Araragi: ...

Then, she speaks, as if she were biting her lips.

Araragi: ...Wait. {\i1}Sasamaru-chan.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh?

How did she call me just now?

What she speaks is the nickname she used when calling me.

Araragi: Wait...well, I've something I want to discuss with you, Sasamaru-chan. May I?

My chest throbs at her troubled eyes looking up at me.

Sasamaru: With...me?

Araragi: S-sorry. You're the only ones I can discuss this with.

After these words, my heart rate reaches its peak.

Sasamaru: Ask me anything!

She said "ones."
I'm happy.
So happy that I could cry.

I'm really happy she included me in the "ones."

Sasamaru: S-so, that really happened.

Araragi's issue...
is a very difficult one.

An outsider might say it's a small and trifling problem.

Problems are often like that.
An outsider might find it difficult to understand the severity of a problem that makes the person herself not sleep at night.

And the fact that she's discussing this problem with me means...

Sasamaru: (This is unavoidable!)

When the called party notices the problem, it has already developed into an unavoidable situation.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo, who joined the conversation halfway, is also greatly perplexed.

It's a problem very hard to deal with.

Araragi: Do you have...any good ideas?

But Araragi is troubled.
My dear friend is troubled.

Sasamaru: (I want to do something.)

I'll squeeze out my shallow wisdom and think of a solution.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Ah, Harutsuge.

Then, Harutsuge arrives.

Harutsuge: What's wrong?

Perhaps sensing the place's air, Harutsuge asks this.

Although, I feel like she's asking not me, but everyone.

Harutsuge: ...

After listening to Araragi's story, Harutsuge stands in silence for a while.

Sasamaru: Could you lend us your wisdom, Harutsuge?

She is a reliable reinforcement. She's the oldest and the most reliable of us.

I'm sure she'll give us a good idea.

Harutsuge: Unfortunately, I'm unable to meet your expectations.

But Harutsuge leaves those words and...

...exits to the hallway, as if it didn't concern her.

Sasamaru: Hey...Ha-Harutsuge?

In panic, I follow her. But Harutsuge disappears into the hallway's darkness without even turning back.

...Now we're troubled.

Sasamaru: Aah...i-it seems Harutsuge was not feeling well and returned to her room to rest.

Araragi: It's fine, don't mind it.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Araragi: Why are you apologizing, Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: It was I who...asked her.

Harutsuge wouldn't behave like that if someone else had asked her.

I'm sure she would warmly give advice in the same way she does with everyone.

Araragi: You're wrong. What are you talking about?

Sasamaru: But...

I'm happy she thinks like this, but it's evident that I worsened the mood.

Hiyo: Honey, there's no need for you to worry. Harutsuge-san must think her behavior was too much.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Even Hiyo is being considerate.

Hiyo: Wait, no matter how you look at this...

Araragi: Ah, t-that's not it. Harutsuge-chan did take part, okay?

Araragi says this in panic, perhaps because Hiyo has a somewhat unpleasant tone.

Hiyo: Do you mean that just now? Or did you talk to her before discussing with us?

Araragi: Ah...not exactly.

Hiyo: Then what?

Araragi: Ah, but she did listen, right?

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: And she did think about it.

Hiyo is with an unsatisfied expression.

Hiyo: Araragi-san...that's a bit too much.

Araragi: No. I'm sure she simply wanted to think about it slowly.

Araragi: A good idea wouldn't have come up if she remained here. So, she wanted to think a bit more slowly.

Araragi: You see, Harutsuge-chan has a very distinct personality. Maybe she didn't want to say any careless ideas.

Araragi is smiling. She doesn't appear to be forcing it at all.

Hiyo: That's true. If you are saying this, it must be true.

Hiyo mutters this and keeps silent.

She has always been like this.
I've never seen Araragi criticize someone.

They often say that she's too nice, or that she's pushing herself too hard, or that she's kidding herself.

But we know it.

The fact Hiyo is swallowing her words despite not agreeing with this is because she knows very well the person called Araragi.

She knows she's saying that for real.

Sasamaru: I'll try thinking a bit more. Though, I might not help much.

Araragi: I'm counting on you.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Araragi: Again, why are you apologizing, Sasamaru-chan?

Araragi has always been like this.

She has a {\i1}very pleasant interpretation{\i0} of everything.

Things can change their impression a lot simply by how you interpret it.

Humans are beings who interpret the things they like very positively.
This is because the mentality of "I don't want to think bad about what I like" is at work.

However, this is proportional to the affection toward the other party.

You don't want to think bad about someone you like. Conversely, any little thing is regarded as "a harassment toward oneself" when dealing with someone you don't like.

This mentality doesn't apply toward someone you don't care about.

That's why they often say that Araragi is "different."

She's a human who can interpret in this manner toward anyone.

It's not because it's Harutsuge.
"It's only a coincidence that this time it's Harutsuge."

She is always, at all times...

...smiling.

//subchapter
No Match For Her
September 24 (Thursday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

One week has passed since our discussion with Araragi.

And, on the morning of a certain day...

Onitake-sensei: All right, everyone. I have an important announcement. Listen.

As soon as she enters the classroom, Onitake-sensei shouts toward everyone.

Onitake-sensei: Listen, everyone. Rules do not exist to be followed. However, they also do not exist to be broken. Yes!

Onitake-sensei: They exist to destroy!!

Sasamaru: Did you simply want to say that, teacher?

Onitake-sensei: Exactly! Good, let's start today's class!

A truly usual morning.

Hiyo: He has gotten completely used to her.

Hiyo softly places a handkerchief on the corner of her eye.

This school too has a place called "cafeteria."

As you can see, it has a different appearance from the "cafeteria" of an average school.
I mean, this isn't the cafeteria. It's the gymnasium.

There is the boarding system with the reason of "honoring the students' independence."

And, along with it, the meals' duty system. You don't need to perceive this to realize that a "cafeteria" itself is against the school's education policy.

Then, how did this come to happen?

Sasamaru: So, this is the "luncheon meeting," huh.

Yes. The reason is to hold the event called "luncheon meeting" once per month.

Sasamaru: So, this too is part of the plan to stimulate the students' independence, right?

Hiyo: Yes. One's independence won't grow simply by giving. On the other hand, the people will lose sight of the meaning in a situation where they must always do everything themselves. I guess this is their idea.

Sasamaru: Yes. Very deep.

But we're always doing it ourselves. The number of students who think this is nothing more than an occasional reward must be overwhelmingly large.

Due to being an event held in this form, the meals' contents are considerably extravagant. There must be plenty of students looking forward to this once-per-month luncheon meeting.

Araragi: Oooh, this month is a kamameshi lunch box.

As soon as she sees the lunch box package, Araragi lets out a happy voice.

Sasamaru: Is it good?

Araragi: Yup. There's a popular kamameshi shop at the foot of the mountain, you see? And this lunch box is made there. It's really delicious.

Sasamaru: Hmm. That looks good.

Araragi: It's like the bank president teachings. With a face a bit sad, "my wife didn't make my lunch box again," but this is actually a chance to eat the store's lunch box.

Sasamaru: By the way, what did the bank president say?

Araragi: "Don't stand on my back."

What interpretation is that!? What kind of misinterpretation leads to that!? Hey!?

Well, it's useless to be surprised at "Araragi Rule."

In fact, this is the first time I see a kamameshi lunch box.

Or rather, I had almost no chances to encounter a ready-made lunch box itself.

Sasamaru: (Let's see...)

I untie it and look inside. From seafood like salted salmon roe, shrimp, and crab, to edible wild plants of this season. The container is colorfully filled, almost overflowing.

Yes, this does look delicious.

Next is...
to wait for the teacher's signal and start the meal.

Sasamaru: Oh yeah, Harutsuge isn't here yet?

Araragi: It...seems so.

Sasamaru: Okay.

Our class arrived late.

There's also the reason that our lesson dragged out, but, before the lesson started, Harutsuge was called by the class year manager—the idea of "class year" doesn't exist; this is merely a name out of convenience—and still hasn't returned.

According to Onitake-sensei, he "just wanted to ask something," but...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: What's wrong, Hiyo?

Hiyo: I-it's nothing...

Did something happen?
She's glancing at the surroundings without any reason in particular.

Sasamaru: ...?

Curious, I look around. Many students are already on their seats, impatiently waiting for the sign to start the meal.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

I feel like they're watching us way too much.
Though, this is unavoidable since we arrived late.

I can't tell with a single glance because this is my first time in a place that gathers all the students, but I think everyone except us might be already here.

They might be thinking: "You get no lunch because you're late."

Aone: Hehe.

"I'm sorry, then." While I'm thinking this, a muffled laughing voice reaches my ears.

I can't believe it. Being criticized is one thing, but being laughed at...

I face the direction of the voice in order to apologize.

As if mocking, there is one female student looking at us.

Aone: Hehehehe.

Aomai: Chuckle.

...Unbelievable.

Sasamaru: (But we are late anyway.)

It's a provocation...
maybe.

If this is true, then it's simply the Ayanashisai's enthusiasm showing up.

Since this is a contest, we are rivals.
Who would go out of his way to laugh for no reason at an opponent?

Male student A: Hah...haha.

Female student B: Hehe...hehehe.

Huh?

But the laugh isn't just from the blue sisters.

"Maybe everyone from the blue team was stirred up by her."
I think this for a moment, but it's not that.

Right,
left,
behind.

All the students gathered at this "cafeteria" are giggling, as if mocking us.

Sasamaru: (W-what?)

Is something strange with us?

Araragi: I wonder what happened.

Puzzled, Araragi is restlessly looking at her surroundings.

At this moment, I remember Hiyo's behavior.

Was she bothered because she noticed this?

Hiyo: It appears they're laughing at us.

Sasamaru: But why? Because we're late?

Even so, this is a bit nasty.
I can understand if it were a complaint, but for everyone to be laughing like this from a distance...

Also, I don't feel well.
I don't mind being laughed at, but for the girls to be ridiculed like this is just...

Sasamaru: Err...everyone, sorry for being la...

The moment I'm about to stand up, I notice it.

They're not looking at me.
Nor are they looking at Hiyo.
The one they're looking at while laughing is...

Araragi: I-I guess the one they're laughing at is me.

After she says it, I'm now certain.
Yes, everyone is looking at Araragi.

They're laughing at Araragi.

Sasamaru: (But why?)

A big question mark appears in my mind.

Araragi: D-did I do something?

Araragi: Hmmmmm.

With a troubled expression, she places her fingertip on her chin while pondering, but...

Araragi: Ah, hahaha. I'm always doing things that make people laugh at me. I can't figure out which one they're laughing at.

Eventually, she makes an expression of being perplexed, or perhaps of hiding her embarrassment.

Araragi: S-sorry. Apparently, I did something, so, it's better if I leave for a bit.

Like suggesting an empty seat, she throws these words at us.

//choice
Complain.
Keep quiet.

//1st choice

I am furious...

...at my worthlessness of being beside her and still making her say that.

Despite being with her, I made her say these words.

Sasamaru: Hey! What are you all doing!?

I shout at those around.

Sasamaru: If you have something to say, then say it! Why are you laughing!?

Male student A: Of course we'll laugh. That girl, you see, she...

Sasamaru: She what?

I glare at the provoking male student.

Male student A: Do...don't get mad. I'm sure you'll laugh, too. She...

Sasamaru: She...what?

Male student A: W-well, she...

//2nd choice

Honestly, I'm angry.

But I must not lash out at them when Araragi is striving not to worsen the situation.

I'll simply waste her feelings.

Araragi: Sorry.

Honestly, to look at Araragi, who is with a guilty face and curling herself, is...painful.

Male Student A: Hey, you from the red team. You too laughed, didn't you?

Sasamaru: ...At what?

Male Student A: Don't make a scary face like that. Sorry, but I can't help but laugh here.

//choice end

Sasamaru: Huh?

It seems the two organs on both sides of my face are defective.

I pick up an unknown sound.

His next words are something I can't make sense of.

Sasamaru: What...are you saying?

As I thought, they were laughing at Araragi.

But they must be receiving a signal from some other world.
The reason they're laughing at her is weird.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Wanting to cover up this rising urge, I try to laugh it off on the spur of the moment.

Because this urge's real shape is something I don't want to look straight at.

Araragi said this...

Araragi: S-sorry. You're the only ones I can discuss this with.

She said that.
She certainly did.

So, the story the student speaks out can only be a misunderstanding.

They are laughing at Araragi...

...because they know about the subject of the discussion Araragi brought to us the other day.

Sasamaru: W-what are you talking about? I don't k-k-know anything about that.

I am the most clumsy liar in the whole world.

I strive to cover up the fact that I know about Araragi's issue. I try to deny it with "that's not true" and "someone made that up," but a different feeling is running up my emotional esophagus.

They all know about the discussion's contents from the other day. What does this mean?

How did this happen?

Stop screwing with me.
The hell this can be happening!

Sasamaru: ...Nngh...

After that, I'm sure she went to discuss it with someone else.

Yes, that's right. There's no other possibility.

Timidly, I turn around toward Araragi.

Araragi: ...

I can guess from her expression.

Araragi didn't discuss it with anyone else.

As she said, {\i1}she only discussed it with us.{\i0}

Sasamaru: N...no way!

Araragi herself hasn't discussed it with anyone else.
And it's unthinkable that Hiyo spoke about it to someone.

Then, the other one who heard that story is...

Harutsuge: Unfortunately, I'm unable to meet your expectations.

Sasamaru: (She...)

She wouldn't do that! What on earth am I thinking!?

Frightened by the deduced conclusion, I rebuke myself.

Sasamaru: Ah...

The one who arrives is Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Sorry. I got delayed.

Sasamaru: ...Ngh...

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Perhaps because she senses the strangeness of the surroundings, Harutsuge looks around, and...

Harutsuge: Did something happen?

She asks this to the nearby Araragi.

Araragi: N-no. It's nooothing.

Harutsuge: You sure?

Kumatake-sensei: Oh, I'm very sorry. Looks like everyone's already here!

All at once, the teachers arrive at the gymnasium.

Kumatake-sensei: All right, you may eat.

With the mood having changed, everyone gradually starts eating.

With the commotion settled, Harutsuge sits on her seat.

I too return to my seat, but...

Sasamaru: ...

...I need to think of something.

Yes. I can simply ask Harutsuge and find out this was all a misunderstanding.

I'm sure my worthless imagination created a misunderstanding.

I can immediately find out that there's another reason for them to know about our discussion.

That's all there is to it.

Sasamaru: Haru...

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Sasamaru: ...It's nothing.

But I can't ask.

If I ask with these feelings, it will mean that I was suspecting Harutsuge.

"I want to feel relieved because I was suspecting." "I want proof to feel relieved."

It will implicitly mean that I want an excuse for myself.

Sasamaru: (No. It's not Harutsuge. I'm absolutely sure it wasn't her.)

I have no other ideas.

But I don't want to accept it.
This isn't possible.

The fact that I'm thinking this is proof that I'm suspecting Harutsuge. But I keep shaking my head.

Even if it actually was extremely delicious...

...the first kamameshi of my life was completely tasteless.

The day's lessons have ended, and I again immerse myself in the project.
The project is slowly but steadily advancing.

It is advancing, but...

Hiyo: Honey. If it's all right with you, may I take over your work from here?

Sasamaru: Eh?

She suddenly asks me that.

Sasamaru: ...Ah.

I finally notice after she indirectly points it out.

I skipped two steps in the part I'm responsible for.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

I'm continuously making mistakes today.

Hiyo noticed it because it's the project of the two of us.

Hiyo: I can work on it today if you're not feeling well. Honey, please take a rest.

Sasamaru: I can't do that.

I can't be this way. I'm the one who proposed this.

Sasamaru: Sorry there. I'll take care next time.

And again, we two immerse ourselves in the project.

But before I notice...

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Ah.

...I'm making the same mistake again.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

What are you doing, me?
Pull yourself together.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo's expression of looking at me with anxiety stings my chest.

I'm simply standing in her way like this.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Every time, I keep pretending to be tough with "sorry," "sorry," but in the end, I keep making the same mistakes.

I'm troubling her, but I don't try to fix this.
People call this an "idiot."

This isn't something that will solve itself by worrying about it.

More importantly, I must focus on the project.
I know this, but...

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

I often wish I had the same talents as Hiyo.

Hiyo: I think it's fine if you stay true to what you believe in, honey.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Even if the thick and solid wall called "truth" stays in front of the matters you believe in, you should simply force it down with your willpower.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: With this, peace should return to your heart, honey.

Sasamaru: ...But that's nothing more than a hunch. It won't change the truth.

Hiyo: Yes. But hunches can make people happy, you know?

Sasamaru: I don't particularly want to be happy.

Hiyo: Then, what do you want to do, honey?

That's right.
What do I want to do?

Sasamaru: I...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo is waiting for my words.

Waiting, forever, without interrupting.

If I empty my mind and simply search for my wish...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge...didn't tell anyone.

...these are the words that come out.

Sasamaru: I'm absolutely sure she'd never do something like this.

It's not that I want to do something.
I simply believe this.

I clearly realize it after saying it out loud.

Hiyo: Then, isn't it fine like that? If you don't need to disturb your heart, you also don't need to {\i1}change anything.{\i0}

I often wish I had the same talents as Hiyo.

She sees through what I want to say and through what I don't.

I really want to say. So much that I can't help it. But she easily sees through the fact that I'm forcefully enduring it.

She even sees through things I myself am not aware of.

I want to speak out, but I can't. And, as if embracing me, she helps me speak it out.

Sasamaru: Right. Ah, that's right.

That's why the words naturally overflow from my mouth.

That's why I can't keep any secrets from her.

No, that's not quite right.
Hiyo also doesn't touch on anything I "don't want to say."

When I "don't want to say" and still worry, she provides a new topic, like a different way of changing the mood.

That's why she doesn't touch on any "secrets."
Even if she has noticed its contents, she doesn't touch it.

Just like that...

Sasamaru: Nothing has changed. There's no need to change anything.

I'm not trying to hide, but, when I can't quite put it into words...

...she skillfully leads me.

As if she was my heart's doctor.

That's why I finally realize I'm biting my lips.

I can realize I was "speaking while enduring something."

Hiyo: ...

Looking at me, Hiyo says...

Hiyo: Those feelings might get betrayed.

...this.

That's why I can reply like this.

Sasamaru: It's okay if I get betrayed.

Hiyo: Is it all right?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I may get betrayed countless times. Even so, I...

"The Four Noble Ones."

Sasamaru: I'll believe in everyone.

Hiyo: But why?

Sasamaru: I want to believe.

Hiyo: Aren't you scared?

Sasamaru: I am scared. But they're my friends.

Ah, that's right.
This is what I wanted to say.

Something very simple but important.

Hiyo knew this...
and led me to speak these words.

Sasamaru: It's fine.

The hazy feelings inside me can finally become {\i1}real{\i0} after I clearly put them into words.

Hiyo: So, honey. You are worried only about Araragi-san, correct?

Sasamaru: Eh? Araragi?

I'm without words at this unexpected name.

Hiyo: Yes. She's feeling down because everyone knew the discussion's contents, am I right?

Sasamaru: Ah.

That's right. Why didn't I realize this!?

Of course I'll be bothered if others know about my worries!

Sasamaru: S-sorry. I'm going to see Araragi.

Hiyo: Yes. Take care, honey.

I want the same talents as Hiyo.

If I'm able to be thoughtful like her, I'm sure someday I'll become a real friend.

Not as an impostor bamboo grass.
I'll be able to become a "bamboo" someday.

At the dormitory.

Walking in the hallway while not knowing what to do, Harutsuge comes across Hiyo, who is strangely lacking in presence of mind.

Harutsuge: Oh, Hiyo-kun. Are you going to prepare the meal?

Hiyo: No, well...

Originally, the one on duty this week was Hiyo, in the same way she was at breakfast.

But the one who will make tonight's dinner is Sasamaru.

Because Sasamaru proposed the "gratitude for the noon help."

Of course, Hiyo refused with "I can't let you do that," but Sasamaru didn't wield because he's always indebted to everyone.

If he doesn't yield, Hiyo has no choice but to give in.

Harutsuge: (Of course.)

Harutsuge does an awkward smile after understanding the reason Hiyo is nervous.

Harutsuge: Then, Hiyo-kun. May I ask you one thing?

Despite feeling hesitation in taking the time of Hiyo, who is obviously nervous, Harutsuge asks.

Harutsuge: So, something did happen, right?

Hiyo: About what?

Harutsuge: At the luncheon meeting. You didn't say anything because it was difficult to speak there. Correct?

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun, you're good at pretending. You won't deliberately lie, but, if you deem necessary, you can pretend so thoroughly that no one notices.

Harutsuge: But you're too good. So good that it's unnatural instead.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Judging from the surroundings, you can't say that "it's nothing," can you?

Hiyo: ...

The two stare at each other for a while, but...

Hiyo: ...You got me.

Eventually, Hiyo says this along with a sigh.

Harutsuge: I know you so much that I know the number of trees you're growing in a certain place in the forest that I can't talk about.

Hiyo: It's a fact that you saw through me, but I have the free will to talk or not about it, okay?

Harutsuge: I'm very sorry. Please tell me about it.

Hiyo: Jeez. Well, the truth is...

Harutsuge: ...Got it.

After listening to the story, Harutsuge plainly declares this after tilting her head once.

Harutsuge: I'm the culprit, then. Looking at the situation, the only one is me.

Hiyo: I wouldn't be considerate like this if I were doubting you.

Harutsuge: But there's someone who is thinking like this, isn't there? If one assumes "I didn't do it," then...

Hiyo: But he said, "you didn't do it."

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: He strongly looked in my eyes and said, "she'd never do it."

Harutsuge: Maybe he simply wants to believe that? In order to satisfy his own feelings, that is.

Hiyo: Then, let me ask you something now. Harutsuge-san, the teachers called you during the class before the luncheon meeting. But what did they talk about with you?

Harutsuge: Aah...well, different from you, my everyday behavior is pretty bad.

Hiyo: Was it the white team issue from the other day?

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: Am I wrong?

Harutsuge: It's not surprising. I did punch him.

Hiyo: But we weren't called, were we?

Harutsuge: Because that was unrelated to you.

Hiyo: I wonder. I think someone would be called for questioning if you had spoken about "why you punched."

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: Thank you very much.

Harutsuge: Why are you thanking?

Hiyo: Because {\i1}you're defending each other{\i0}. But I think you wouldn't like if this reached his ears. So, I'm expressing the thanks instead.

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: But it's weird. When discussing with Araragi-san, we were the only ones there. She didn't seem to have talked to anyone else.

Harutsuge: That's true.

Then...

The dinner time approaches. And when Araragi is about to enter the living room like always...

...only Hiyo is there.

Araragi: You're early, Hiyo-chan.

Hiyo: Eh...o-oh my. Araragi-san.

Araragi: Oh dear.

Araragi is guessing the situation from Hiyo's behavior.

Araragi: You look nervous, Hiyo-chan.

Hiyo: A-about what?

Araragi: So, Sasamaru-chan is cooking.

Hiyo: T-that's right.

Araragi: You're worried, right?

Hiyo: T-that's not true!

Araragi: Your voice is high-pitched. High-pitched.

Hiyo: ~~~

Araragi: If you're so restless, go help him already.

Hiyo: I...I'll just get in his way.

Araragi: I believe Sasamaru-chan won't think that you're in his way.

Araragi is broadly smiling. There's absolutely no signs of mocking in her way of speaking.

She's always like that.
She grants energy to everyone simply by being there.

When she says, "it's going to be fine," you mysteriously feel that it's really going to be fine.
Now, she's really about to go to the kitchen and help him.

Araragi: A while ago, Sasamaru-chan came to me.

Hiyo: Oh my. Did something happen?

Araragi: ...

Hiyo: Araragi-san?

Araragi: No. About...today, you see? I think he was a bit worried.

Hiyo: He is very kind.

Araragi: ...

Hiyo: W-what is it now? Is there something on my face?

Araragi: No, it's nothing. I just thought, "I'm no match for Hiyo-chan."

Hiyo: Huh?

Araragi: Jeez, just go and tell him, "I like you."

Hiyo: W-what!?

Araragi: You're already saying it. Anyone can see. Sasamaru-chan is...well, a bit slow about these things.

Hiyo: W-what are you...f-feelings of liking are nothing more than chemical reactions.

Araragi: Aah, there you go again. Look, Hiyo-chan. Feelings of liking make a girl very strong and very, very kind, you know?

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo blushes at Araragi's words.

Hiyo: ......I am aware of that.

Then, she murmurs.

Araragi: Yup, yup. So, Hiyo-chan, you're the type who only consents after applying reason to your own feelings.

Looking at the smiling and accepting Araragi, Hiyo thinks, "I'm no match for her."

For a long time...
Hiyo has been thinking this.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Hmm?

Unconsciously, she looks at Araragi's profile face.

Hiyo: Araragi-san...you're amazing.

Araragi is in a daze at these words.

Araragi: About what?

Hiyo: But...well, your worries are...

Hiyo starts but hesitates with her next words.

Araragi: Aaah...but everyone already knows it. There's nothing we can do this late.

She's with the usual smile as ever, but...
this matter isn't one she can "accept."

To begin with, it's impressive that she can say this.

She could understand if these words had come out "because she gave up."
But this isn't the case for her.

She's saying that "there's nothing I can do" with this smile and these feelings.

Hiyo knows this well because she knows her for a long time.

She really is like the "sun."

Sasamaru: It's done.

Hiyo reacts to the voice coming from the kitchen.

After immediately standing up, she opens the sliding screen at the same time Sasamaru shows up with the trays.

And after Sasamaru passes through it, she heads to the kitchen and returns with the chopsticks and spoons in hand.

Her movements are truly natural, as if they were made after very detailed calculations.

No matter how much Sasamaru refuses cooperation, he won't notice a help like this.

Araragi thinks Hiyo is fine with this.

She doesn't want Sasamaru to thank her.
Nor wants him to praise her.
She simply wants to be helpful, literally.

Of course, she'll be happy if he says, "thanks for helping," but...
she isn't seeking any rewards to begin with.

That's why she's natural.
She doesn't force her good will nor shows any behavior of wanting to be cared.

Her movements are like a stage assistant, merging into the place's air and scenery.

Araragi: (I'm really no match for her.)

Just like Hiyo...
Araragi also thinks that.

Since a long, long time ago.

I think I've gotten quite used to a seasoning everyone will like.

The stronger the feelings of "to make others happy" and "entertain" are, the more humans tend to challenge something more elaborate, but...

I don't particularly want everyone to recognize my skills nor want to boast.

I simply want to take responsibility for being the one on duty this week and strive to make a "dining table for everyone."

This is everyone's dormitory.

So, I'm choosing a dish and seasoning that "everyone," and not just anyone in particular, finds it easier to eat.

By the way, today menu's is curry and rice.

It's not elaborate nor anything. It's a common curry and rice that anyone can make.

But it's a curry and rice with the utmost attention so that "everyone" can eat it.

Perhaps because everyone liked it...

...they ate everything.

Sasamaru: (I'm very thankful.)

But today, for some reason...

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge is strangely restless.

Sasamaru: (What happened?)

She is actually eating.

But the usual, massive Harutsuge is awfully nervous.

As if she has something to say but can't say it.

Araragi: Thanks for the food. It was delicious~

Sasamaru: Glad you liked it.

She ate it all up with zest.

A healthy child eats so much that one wonders: "how did all that fit in that small body?"

Sasamaru: Want seconds?

Araragi: Eh? M-may I have seconds?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I'll bring it.

I hurry to the kitchen.

Then, the dinner continues.

Harutsuge: ...kun. Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Well, listen. It was quite tasty. Your curry, that is.

Sasamaru: ...T-thanks.

Harutsuge: This isn't an expression of gratitude for it, but...

...Gratitude?

Harutsuge: I'll teach you the trick to it. Curry and rice become tastier with just a little bit of soy sauce.

Sasamaru: So...soy sauce?

Harutsuge: That's right. You never tried this?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I...didn't.

Harutsuge: Then, try it now. It's very good.

Harutsuge readily holds out the soy sauce.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Here.

While I'm hesitating at this sudden development, Harutsuge extends the soy sauce further.

Sasamaru: Okay then...

As suggested, I put just a little bit of soy sauce onto the curry and rice.

Then, I take a spoonful to my mouth.

Harutsuge: How is it?

Sasamaru: Ah. It sure is good. Like the taste has gotten toned.

Harutsuge: Right?

Harutsuge says it in a somewhat lively voice.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Suddenly, Harutsuge senses gazes from around her.

Harutsuge: Why are you two grinning?

Araragi: No, it's nothing.

Hiyo: I simply thought, "Harutsuge-san is so adorable."

Harutsuge: H-hmm?

...After the meal.

It's when I'm washing the tableware at the kitchen after tidying them up.

Harutsuge: ...

I turn around at a sudden presence. Harutsuge is there.

Sasamaru: What's wrong?

Harutsuge: Ah, well.

As if running away from the question, she averts her eyes.

I'm thinking if I have forgotten to bring some tableware...but maybe it's a different business.

I continue to wash the dishes, but...

Harutsuge: ...

Vaguely restless, Harutsuge is simply standing there.

Sasamaru: ...What's the matter?

I repeat the same question.

Harutsuge: ...Err, well.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Ho...how's the project?

Sasamaru: The project?

Due to the abruptness of the question's topic, I'm unable to immediately grasp its meaning.

Sasamaru: Project...you mean the project for the Ayanashisai?

Harutsuge: T-that's right.

She asks "how."
I wonder if she means its progress.

Sasamaru: Well, it's going smoothly.

Harutsuge: S-sure. Going smoothly, eh?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Hiyo sure is excellent.

Harutsuge: Of course.

Looks like it's about the progress.

But why out of nowhere?

Sasamaru: Don't worry. We won't hold you back, Harutsuge.

The "red team's project" is the combination of both of our works.
Of course we're worried about each other's projects.

Harutsuge: I-I'm not worried about...that.

She's not?

Harutsuge: Shit. Damn thickheaded king.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: Fine then. Tomorrow. It's tomorrow, okay? See ya.

After saying it with emphasis, Harutsuge hurriedly leaves the kitchen.

Sasamaru: ...?

Still in the living room, Araragi thinks: "Now I understand."

Hiyo, who always acts immediately after the meal ends, is now not moving.

Usually, she's naturally helping Sasamaru with something, but...

Araragi: (I underestimated her.)

She anticipated Harutsuge would step forward.

Sasamaru probably didn't even notice that "Hiyo isn't helping today."

Because it was too natural.

Araragi: Welcome back, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Hmm. Ah, w-what's wrong?

Araragi: No, it's nothing, really.

Just one thing.
If there's one thing bothering her...

It's the fact that Hiyo's feelings are so pure...
so transparent that the other party isn't quite noticing it.

Araragi: (Many hardships in store.)

Araragi feels that this is a little bit sad.

//subchapter
A Soft Comfort
September 25 (Friday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

That day's morning...
More accurately, after yesterday's night.

...I wonder.

For some reason, I feel the dorm has become a bit more comfortable.

Sasamaru: Good morning!

I greet everyone like I always do.

Hiyo: Good morning, honey.

Hiyo does an elegant bow that doesn't give the impression she just woke up.

Araragi: Good morniiing.

And in contrast, Araragi makes a dull greeting fit for a person who just woke up.

Araragi: I wonder if I snored too loudly last night.

No, you were sleeping normally and cute as ever. I mean, please don't force it anymore.

Frankly speaking, it's {\i1}that{\i0} again.
She's gathering extremely biased information about a "middle-aged man," and she's also in this "just wanting to say" mood.

She's wrong at this point, right? In the first place, a "bank president" is not a middle-aged man, okay? She should review this point already, right?

Also, one more person.

Harutsuge: ...G-good...morning.

She isn't particularly ignoring us, but Harutsuge is somewhat distant.

But this day, there's a feeling different from usual.

I can't explain well what it is, but there sure is a different feedback.

I can feel the flow of a very refreshing air.

"Aah, the morning has come."
I want to naturally stretch myself like this.

After finishing breakfast, it's time to go to school as always.

Harutsuge: Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge? What's up?

Harutsuge, who always goes to school early, is still here at this time.

Harutsuge: H-hey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: About yesterday's topic...umm.

Yesterday...
Aah, the progress of the Ayanashisai's project.

Harutsuge: Err, well. If it's all right with you...

Sasamaru: Yeah?

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: N-no, it's nothing. After school...see you after school.

Again in a hurry, she leaves after saying this.

Sasamaru: (After school?)

After school...
what?

At that time, I think Harutsuge and I will be working on our projects like always, but...

Sasamaru: (Eh!)

I've been called thickheaded since a long time ago. But even I had an insight just now.

After thinking "what if," my heartbeat suddenly gets faster.

Sasamaru: (...Eh? ...Eh?)

...Is this what she means?

Sasamaru: (May I think...that?)

Without any reason in particular, I'm staring at the entryway she exited from.

Hiyo: Oh my. Harutsuge-san isn't with you?

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah, no. Harutsuge just left.

Hiyo: ...Jeez...Harutsuge-san always gets cold feet at the crucial times.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Ah, it's nothing. So, Harutsuge-san has just left?

Sasamaru: It was a while ago.

Araragi left after her.

Hiyo: Ah, honey. I have to close the doors first. Could you go ahead?

I wonder why she's saying that today, of all days.
We always wait until we finish closing the doors.

Hiyo: I'll soon catch up with you.

Sasamaru: Ah...got it.

Hiyo: My apologies, honey. You too, please {\i1}catch up{\i0}, okay?

And thus, I head to school, but...

Sasamaru: (I arrived.)

I'm walking slowly, thinking Hiyo would soon come, but, in the end, I arrive at school before she can catch up with me.

Sasamaru: (I have no other choice. I'll wait at the entrance.)

While changing my shoes at the shoe rack, I hear some noisy voices.

Looking around, I see a crowd of students gathered in the hallway.
There's a familiar face among them.

Sasamaru: (Araragi?)

And...Aone.

It looks like they are arguing.

But they aren't at the center of the uproar. I have the impression they are arguing while blending with the people who have gathered because of the ruckus.

Sasamaru: What's wrong, Araragi?

Araragi: Ah...Sasamaru-chan. Well...

Aone: This girl was about to help.

Sasamaru: Help? With what?

Aone answers my question by moving her eyes.

And, in the place she's looking at...

Sasamaru: (The yellow team?)

In a place near the shoe rack is the classroom of the yellow team, from the plaster course.

It's nothing new that the building's size doesn't match at all the number of students. It's for this same reason that I have no contact with them. Our red team's classroom is too distant.

The center of the ruckus is indeed there. I can even hear quarreling voices.

Yellow Team Male Student A: GODDAMMIT!!

What bursts out is an angry roar.

What I see there is an unbelievable scene.

Sasamaru: What on earth...is this...

It's so disastrous that I almost speak it out loud.

I wonder if that is this class' Ayanashisai project.
But...

You can no longer tell what they were trying to create.

Sasamaru: How did it become like that?

It's in a condition so cruel that I unintentionally let out these words.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Who was it!? Who the hell did it!?

Another angry voice overlaps with my frozen thoughts.

Yellow Team Male Student A: This is unfair! The culprit must come forward! This is too much, goddammit!!

With a threatening attitude, as if he might grab me at any moment now...
the student has tears lightly accumulated at the corner of his eyes.

Sasamaru: (Did...someone do this? But why?)

"Interference."
This word crosses my mind.

The Ayanashisai is a contest.
In short, a "competition."

Sasamaru: (But this is...)

There are things you can do and things you can't.

You're finished as an artist when you "destroy another's work in order to knock down your opponent."

It doesn't matter if you're a professional or an amateur.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Who was it!? Who did this!?

The louder the voice becomes, the larger the ruckus gets. The number of people gathering also increases.

Everyone knits their eyebrows at this terrible scene.

This is not surprising.

This is the Yumemidori Academy. Although the roads we walk on are different, this is a place where those aspiring to become "artists" gather.
Therefore, the passion deep in our roots should be the same.

No one here lacks the imagination power not to realize what it means to "destroy another's work."

"How would I feel if that had happened to me?"
"What does the 'work' mean to an artist?"

For us, this scene is a {\i1}miserable sight{\i0} and very, very painful to watch.

Everyone here understands the reason for the yellow team student to be upset and shedding tears.

Sasamaru: Wait a minute.

Yellow Team Male Student A: What is it!?

Sasamaru: You said someone broke it. Are you saying someone did this?

Yellow Team Male Student A: That's right! Someone interfered because they want to win at the Ayanashisai! This is too underhanded!

Sasamaru: Do you have some proof?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Proof? I don't have proof! Can't you tell from looking at this!?

Sasamaru: I can tell it's broken. But...

Sasamaru: Are you really saying there's someone in this school {\i1}who can do something like this?{\i0}

What makes me speak these words is my adoration for this school.

...And also, as a result, my trust {\i1}as an artist{\i0} toward those chosen by this school.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I...I too...I too don't want to think that...

After these words, the agitated male student recovers a bit of his composure.

Yellow Team Male Student A: But...but! It's including the casing. Someone threw our work on the floor along with the casing. There's no doubt about this.

Yellow Team Male Student A: It's quite a heavy one. We used an imported casing that prioritizes sturdiness. It has a unique structure. No one can tell how to unlock it with just one glance.

Sasamaru: So...this person threw it on the ground along with the casing because he didn't know how to unlock it?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Everyone in our class knows how to unlock it. Then, the only other option is that someone from another class did it.

Sasamaru: ...

...Certainly. I now understand why he's so fixed that someone intentionally broke it.

The classroom falls silent.

Even the ones who were jeering, "didn't you drop it on accident?" fall silent.

Yellow Team Male Student A: A moment ago...that girl said she'd help repair it, but...

I get it. Aone just said, "Araragi was about to help."

Sasamaru: I'll help, too.

These words naturally slip from my throat.

Aone: Hey, wait. You too are disrespecting him?

Sasamaru: ...Disrespecting?

Aone: Exactly. Think about it. What could that be other than disrespect?

Aone: The Ayanashisai is an event you participate as a student from the Yumemidori Academy. In short, you must accomplish this event as a person aspiring to become an artist. Think well about the meaning of this.

The meaning...

Aone: Don't you think it has meaning exactly because you do it with your own strength?

Sasamaru: But that's just...

Aone: This doesn't change, even if it's broken.

Aone says it with a strong intonation, as if restraining my words.

Aone: What would you do if your work was broken? Would you repair it? Or give up? Or rebuild one from scratch?

Sasamaru: Well...

Aone: You can't decide, can you? A work's consideration and effort are different for each and every work.

Aone: There are times when you can no longer fix it. If the work was already completed, what meaning would rebuilding it have?

Aone: To restore it or not, it's up to them. It's their choice. Your words are the same as smearing mud on their self-respect as an artist.

Aone: Isn't your insistency simply hypocrisy?

Sasamaru: ...

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...I'm sorry. Your offer is very kind, but...it's as she says.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Our class will discuss what to do from now on.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

It's as she says. I have no words to reply.

Araragi: They got angry at us.

Sasamaru: Right.

Yes, we should reflect upon that.

It's exactly as Aone says.
I didn't think this through.

Araragi: How frustrating. They called me "hypocrite" again.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: I wonder...what is "hypocrisy"?

Sasamaru: ...Hypocrisy?

I open my eyes wide at these sudden words.

Araragi: To my embarrassment, I often get that. "What you're doing is hypocrisy."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: I...was only trying to do what I believed in, but still, they call me that. So, I sometimes wonder, "what is hypocrisy?"

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Ahaha. Is this way of thinking already "hypocrisy"?

This is...a rare face for Araragi.

With one look, it's the same as always.
It appears so.

A bashful face, a bit troubled, a little bit weakened...
but different.

Araragi: Feelings of "don't want to be hated."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: Feelings of "wanting to be liked."

Araragi: I wonder if this is why people are kind to others.

Sasamaru: ...That's difficult.

This isn't an issue you can give a prompt reply to, nor an issue where an answer will show up if you think a little.

Araragi: Hmm. So, it's difficult even for you, Sasamaru-chan.

I mean, is there a person who can give an answer to this?

Araragi: Then, someone like me has no way of knowing.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: If they were criticizing...I'd be fine, but if they said I was giving them a bad time...I'd feel bad.

Sasamaru: ...

After that, we were able to join with Hiyo before reaching the classroom, but...

Hiyo: Hehe.

She seems thoroughly in a good mood.

Then, together with Araragi, we three head to the classroom.

Hiyo: Ah, I'm sorry, honey. Please go ahead to the classroom.

Sasamaru: Hmm? What's wrong?

Araragi: My goodness, Sasamaru-chan. This is where you should take a hint.

Sasamaru: Aah.

We are in front of the women's bathroom.

Hiyo: If you wish, honey, I don't mind if you come together with me.

Araragi: Hey, hey, Hiyo-chan.

Sasamaru: I'm very sorry. Please take your time.

Hiyo: Hehe.

Then, Araragi and I are about to go to the classroom, when...

Araragi: Ah.

Waka: Hmm.

...we bump into Waka-san.

Waka: Faaaatheeeeer.

Waka-san raises her voice after finding Araragi.
I guess she isn't {\i1}noticing me{\i0}.

Araragi: ...Uh, hmm, mmnn.

As if she was feeling uneasy by her greeting, Araragi has an indescribable expression.

Sasamaru: ...

I'm at a loss for a while, but...

Sasamaru: Well, Waka-san.

I resolve myself and decide to speak.

It's the matter I discussed with Araragi the other day.
The truth is, this also concerns Waka-san.

Waka: Father. How are you today?

Araragi: Well, I'm in perfect form today too, but...err...

Waka: I'm glad you're all right.

Heeeey, I'm here too.

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

Waka: Hmm.

When I persistently call her, Waka-san finally but reluctantly faces me.

Waka: What is this vermin doing?

That's really bitter. I'm almost crying here.

Sasamaru: I have something to talk about with you. Do you have a minute?

Waka: I have nothing to talk about with you.

Sasamaru: It's just for a little while.

I feel that my point isn't getting across, but I still hang on.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: There. Stop with that "eeerrgghh" face.

Waka: Just a little bit, then.

All right.

Waka: Okay, done.

Sasamaru: And Waka-san.

Waka: ...Ngh.

It's the end if I get dragged into Waka-san's pace.
I must make her listen to me.

Sasamaru: ...Hmm?

Someone is repeatedly pulling my sleeve.

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Araragi: ...Thanks, Sasamaru-chan. I'll take it from here.

What I'm seeing at this moment is a noble determination.

Sasamaru: You'll...say it yourself?

Araragi: Yeah.

I'm clearly seeing a golden soul, like a holy woman who goes to the battlefield after grieving about the battle.

Waka: So, the chat with the worn-out cloth is over.

Waka-san's eyes move from me to Araragi.

I hope Waka-san lowers her guard after shifting her attention to Araragi.

Ah. By the way, worn-out cloth is probably me.
Best regards.

Araragi: L...look, Waka-san.

Waka: Yes.

Araragi: I have a request.

Waka: What is it?

Araragi: Well...

So, Araragi will step forward on her own.
Sorry for not being helpful.

I earnestly thought of a way, but, in the end, I couldn't help much.

Araragi: Wait...well, I've something I want to discuss with you, Sasamaru-chan. May I?

Yes. This is a very difficult issue.

An outsider might say it's a small and trifling problem.

But for the person herself...
it's a troublesome matter that makes her unable to sleep at night.

Problems are often like that.
An outsider might find it difficult to understand its severity.

And the issue is...

Sasamaru: (This is unavoidable.)

Yes, it's an unavoidable matter.

That's why I've been racking my brains since that day...
and a good plan didn't come out.

Such is the unavoidable matter.

Araragi: Well...

But now, Araragi is stepping forward by herself.

She is doing a large step forward by her own will.

I must watch over her.
I must ascertain the outcome she chose.

Now, the feelings concealed in Araragi's chest will reach Waka-san.

Araragi: I'd be sooo happy if you...stopped calling me "father."

She said it!

She finally said it.

Aah, Araragi.
You are so brave.

Everyone will sing the praises of the courage you mustered.
All the admiration and glory are now with you.

And then, the girl who listened to her wish opens her mouth.

Waka: But why? Father is father.

Ah, I knew she'd say that.

"A middle-aged man is a middle-aged man."
Of course.
It's exactly as you say.

What sin is there in calling a middle-aged man a middle-aged man?
I too call the aunties from the neighborhood "auntie."

Therefore, it's an extremely natural providence to call a middle-aged man "middle-aged man." This is the truth of the universe.

Araragi: But you see? I don't think a youthful girl is a father.

Waka: Are you not penetrated yet?

Araragi: W-w-w-w-what are you talking about!?

Waka: Are you?

Araragi: N......not yet.

Waka: Is that so? Well, such a thing is irrelevant.

Araragi: It's irrelevant!?

Waka: But this isn't a problem about if you've been penetrated or not. No matter what happens, until death...no, even after death, father is father.

Araragi: Waaaaaaaaaah! You're cruel!

Waka: Don't cry, father. Want a handkerchief, father?

Araragi: Stop repeating faaaaaatheeeer!!

As I thought, the war's situation is unfavorable.

The enemy is mighty and also has strengthened her solid defenses.
It won't be easy to break through.

It's because...

Sasamaru: (Araragi is a genuine middle-aged man.)

This is absolute. No one can overturn this.
These words have the overwhelming power to make all consent and obey.

When someone asks, "is Araragi a middle-aged man?"
Everyone nods. No one doubts it.

Sasamaru: Hey, Araragi.

Araragi: Uuuuuhh.

Sasamaru: How about being called "uncle" instead of "father"?

I muster my courage and offer a compromise plan.

Sasamaru: Right?

Hiyo: Honey. This is not a place to make a face of "I have the greatest idea."

What!?

Sasamaru: Wait, Hiyo. When did you...

Waka: Big sis <3

Harutsuge: Your ideas are the same as a certain someone.

Sasamaru: This can't be!

We join with Harutsuge, who has also exited the bathroom.

Waka: Hey. You ground beetl...

Hiyo: Waka-san?

Waka: No, don't put me together with this gentleman.

Hey, what were you about to say? Huh!?
Or rather, your face and words don't match at all!!

...Nngh. Still, even my compromise plan fails.

Given the irrefutable fact that Araragi is a middle-aged man, I think there's no other way, but...

Sasamaru: (...Wait a minute.)

I have an insight!

Sasamaru: I know! Araragi!

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: Please give me one more chance.

Araragi: I-it's okay already. Sorry.

Sasamaru: No, wait. I feel confident this time. Let me make another suggestion.

Araragi: O-okay.

That's right, I was mistaken.

She is a girl.
It's {\i1}obvious{\i0} I have to make it cute.

Harutsuge: I have a very bad feeling about this.

Waka: I'm not sure, but I agree.

Look, my spectators. Behold my new plan.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun, what do you think?

Hiyo: Judging from this mood, I...W-wait. I believe he will think of a wonderful plan.

Harutsuge: Then, let's bet on it. 5,000 yen that it's a hopeless plan.

Hiyo: Eh? I...bet 20 yen that...he has a ground-breaking plan.

Harutsuge: No bet established.

Araragi = middle-aged man.

This formula...
A perfect equation, like reading "Araragi" and speaking "middle-aged man."
And now, insert an element that girls like.

Thus, the derived conclusion is...

"Small middle-aged man."

As you can see, the "small" element that girls like is used.

Stuffed toys and animals. If they're small, they all say, "AH! How cuuuute!" right? Ah, I'm so perfect.

But it's still not enough. I'll further advance it.

An element that youngsters like, number two: changing into a European word.

This is my trump card!

Waka: Anyway, may I go now? There are things I must do.

Harutsuge: Let's see. The conversation is already going in a different direction from the initial objective.

Waka: I'll take my leave. Big sis, have a good day.

Yes. The time is now.

Swing down the "hammer" that will smash all of Araragi's problems.

Sasamaru: How about "goblin"?

Araragi: ...

It's decided.
I'm already laughing just by picturing their reactions.

Sasamaru: (Heh.)

Well, there's no need to rush.
I'll first tidy up my appearance...then slowly turn around and face them.

I need to mentally prepare myself to receive the praises.
A modest stance and without being sarcastic.

Good.

I finish my preparations, turn around to them, and...
wait.

Huh? Where is Waka-san?
Wait, what is this air?

Sasamaru: H-huh?

Harutsuge: Well, that's about it. It's funnier than I thought.

Sasamaru: Wait, you're not supposed to laugh! I'm serious here. Dead serious.

Harutsuge: You did well.

Sasamaru: It's also not a scene to softly place your hand on my shoulder!

Hiyo: I-I thought it was funny! Aah, my belly hurts. I'm twisting.

Sasamaru: No, I wasn't trying to make you laugh!

Harutsuge: Well, I recognize your efforts, but you totally mistook the direction.

Harutsuge: For example, you thought tomorrow's meeting was yesterday and, as a result, made the mistake of perfecting a time machine with your astounding efforts and traveled to yesterday.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Ah, Hiyo-kun. You just thought this was funny, didn't you?

Hiyo: T-that's not tr...Pfff.

Why!?

How strange. Isn't "small" a compliment word for girls? It's like "cute," right?

Harutsuge: Are you perhaps a hardcore lolicon?

Hiyo: Eh? I-is that true!?

Sasamaru: Wait, wait! Why has the conversation changed!?

Harutsuge: He isn't self-aware. This is exactly the type of man who unconsciously commits sex crimes.

Sasamaru: Self-aware of what!? Wait, I'm not! I'm not that, you hear!?

Hiyo: ...Honey.

Sasamaru: Yes?

Hiyo: Honey, if you're a hardcore lolicon, then...umm...

Sasamaru: Wait a minute. Waaaaait a minute. Why are you assuming that is true?

Hiyo: Eh? It's not?

What's that surprised face about?

I mean, if you keep pulling and stretching this topic too much, I might be arrested for real. Shouldn't you all be careful now?

Hiyo: This is very important to me. Well, honey, are you a hardcore lolicon? Or are you filled with favoritism toward girls under a specific age!?

Hmm, those choices are strange. Both look like inescapable traps for sure.

Harutsuge: Look here. This world has this thing called lolicon declaration.

Sasamaru: Let's stop this topic, for real. Just say this is all my fault, and we're done.

...Ah.

Harutsuge: Drat. The class will soon start.

Araragi: Ah, oh, no. We must hurry.

Harutsuge: All right, let's race to the classroom. Like dashing toward the sunset.

Harutsuge: More accurately, dash to the front of the classroom, where the teacher is rehearsing today's jokes.

Araragi: Ah, it's true. The teacher is always doing that.

Harutsuge: Let's go, Araragi-kun. Hiyo-kun...and Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Aah. Wait a little.

Hiyo: Honey is a hardcore lolicon? Hardcore?

Sasamaru: Please stop repeating that. Please.

We four are running through the hallway.

And there's something I notice while we are running.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

...How did Harutsuge call me just now?

Also...
out of nowhere...

Weren't we chatting normally?

Araragi: Nnngh. And I'm still the father.

Harutsuge: That's your fate. Or do you prefer Sasamaru-kun's suggestion of "goblin"?

Araragi: I'm feeling like I no longer care which one it is.

Harutsuge: Then, here's a third suggestion. If a "goblin" is fine...then, how about something with a similar image like a "kobold"?

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san. The origin of both goblins and kobolds are evil spirits, or perhaps fairies. Being faithful to their traditional figures, you should choose a good spirit like a "hobgoblin."

Araragi: Ah. A "gnome"! How about a "gnome"!?

Harutsuge: So, she sensed the danger and finally proposed herself.

Hiyo: But the root of the word gnome is the Greek word Genomus: "One who lives underground." It doesn't fit the cheerful character of Araragi-san.

Hiyo: So, "hobgoblin" is better regarding the meaning.

Araragi: Underground is good! Underground is fun! According to the bank president's teachings, excavators are filled with adventure.

Hiyo: Then, as a suggestion filled with young boys' dreams, how about "drill"?

Araragi: There's no longer a pattern here! Or rather, why are you choosing weird names!?

Harutsuge: She's terminal. I feel pity for her.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: What's wrong, Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: I-it's nothing...

At this moment, I finally get it.

The real reason Araragi brought the discussion topic to me.

Araragi: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Hey...did you perhaps...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan. Thanks.

I get surprised for one moment.

Sasamaru: Eh? About what?

Araragi: "About what?" For giving me advice.

Sasamaru: But that's because you...

Araragi: Hmmmm, I have to give you something in return~

Araragi: I got it! Sasamaru-chan, how about you let me help you in your project for the Ayanashisai?

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Well, the one I'm making isn't going well. If it's all right with you, could you let me join yours and turn it into a co-production?

Sasamaru: Araragi...

Araragi: Is this asking too much?

I was right.

Araragi, she has...

She has always treasured everyone's "harmony."

The place's mood is something created by everyone present.

That's why she's always thoughtful about protecting it. She's the first one who strives to bring up a lighthearted topic when the mood gets gloomy.

Even if Araragi herself is the one feeling down, she strives to be the most cheerful of all.

That's why, look.

While putting away all the happy and sad things inside her chest...

...she simply...

...smiles.

Aah, it's radiant.

I think so.

And I realize.

"I'm no match for the 'sun.'"

//subchapter
When The Four Plants Gather
September 26 (Saturday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

The long-awaited holiday.

For the students, it's a day of release, a day of freedom. And also a day of serenity.

That's why...

...right after finishing breakfast, I head to the water mill.

It's exactly because today is a holiday that I must use my spare time and advance the project even a little more.

Well, let's do it.

Hiyo: ...

...Or so I thought.
The one peeking inside the water mill is Hiyo.

Sasamaru: What's wrong, Hiyo?

Hiyo: Ah, no, it's nothing.

Hiyo seems relieved after confirming my state.

As if following my example, she starts working on the project.

Sasamaru: Hiyo. You can rest on your day off, okay?

I was careless.

I don't know what her business is, but even Hiyo will find it hard to leave after seeing me working like this.

That's why I left the dorms without saying anything. But it backfired.

Hiyo: Oh my. I am taking it easy.

While saying that, Hiyo mimics me and grabs the work tools.

Sasamaru: I mean, you may take a break on your day off and relax at the dorm.

Hiyo: But honey, you too are working.

...Well, she's correct.

Sasamaru: But I...I'm doing it because I like it.

I want to borrow Hiyo's help in order to finish it on time, but I don't want her to overdo it on her day off.
Because I'm always bothering Hiyo under normal circumstances.

Hiyo: ...Am I in the way?

Sasamaru: No, no, that's not it. I simply want you to spend your day off however you want.

Hiyo: Okay.

Hiyo cheerfully smiles and returns to work.

H-huh?

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: ...You won't go back?

Hiyo: If I'm getting in the way...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Well then, excuse me.

And once more, Hiyo returns to work.

From her appearance, she has not a hint of reluctance.

Sasamaru: (...Hmmmm.)

I'm about to say something, but Hiyo is standing there so naturally.
So, I'm unable to say anything else.

A while after that.

Araragi: Excuse me.

Araragi arrives at the water mill.

Sasamaru: Araragi? What's the matter?

Araragi: "What's the matter?" You said yesterday that I can help.

Sasamaru: Eh!? But today's a holiday!

Araragi: Yeah. That's right.

Sasamaru: Wait, "that's right"?

Araragi: ...Did you change your mind?

Sasamaru: N-no! I didn't! I'm happy you came!

Araragi: Aah, I'm glad.

Araragi too came here despite being a holiday!?

Is this okay!? Really!?
Is so much happiness okay!?

Araragi: What about Hiyo-chan?

I stiffen my body at her question.

Sasamaru: Well...

She went to restock the materials that, yet again, are running low.

And I had decided not to let Hiyo be considerate.
I was so concentrated that Hiyo had disappeared when I finally realized we were running out of materials.

Araragi: Yup, yup. That sounds like you.

Sasamaru: Uugh.

She's sympathizing with my recklessness.

Sasamaru: ...Hmm? But why did you think Hiyo was here?

Araragi: Because it's Hiyo-chan.

...?

I'm not sure, but that's correct.

Which reminds me, Hiyo's late.

Sasamaru: Ah, welcome back, Hiyo...

?: ...

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo?

What is reflected in my eyes when I turn around is...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: What's the ma...

After speaking, I notice what she's carrying in her hand.

It's the materials Hiyo went to get.

Harutsuge: The materials our class ordered are in the same place, so...

Harutsuge: Besides, I heard from Hiyo-kun that she was bringing the materials here little by little...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: And...also, I thought the muscle brain that is me would be the most suitable person or something.

Sasamaru: ...

A small interval.

I swallow the words about to leave my throat and wait for Harutsuge to talk...
but I give up.

I'm grateful for this "interval."
Thanks for granting me a chance to speak it myself.

Sasamaru: You'll...help us?

Still, the words mixed with expectation and anxiety are stuttering somewhat.

Harutsuge: ...Wrong.

Sasamaru: ...Right.

I'm disappointed by these words.

But there will be another day. There will be another chance.

She came here by herself.
This is a big step.

Sasamaru: Then, did you come to observe? You don't have to be shy, okay?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Ah, thanks for the materials. I'll take it.

The moment I'm about to take the package from her hand...

Harutsuge: I'm a coward.

Sasamaru: ...But why?

Harutsuge: I waited for you to speak first.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Again, let me say it. Please, could you let me join you and work with the project?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: Please.

Sasamaru: You...sure?

Harutsuge: There's no sure. The one who will decide this is you. I just came to ask.

Sasamaru: It's fine! Of course it is!

Harutsuge: ...Okay. Thanks.

I know that asking this is rude, but...

Sasamaru: But...why out of the blue?

Harutsuge: That's simple.

Sasamaru: Simple?

Harutsuge: I felt it was ridiculous.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: I thought that...it's ridiculous to be pointlessly stubborn and miss this chance where I can participate in the project with excellent ideas.

I'm taken aback by her words for one moment, but...

Sasamaru: ...Okay.

I'm aware that my mouth is grinning.

Hiyo: ...

A gorgeous shadow of a person secretly peeking inside the water mill.

Hiyo: (...Good! Good!)

Sensing the joy overflowing from inside the hut, she too makes a sublime smile.

He's smiling.
Smiling with much happiness.

Hiyo: (He is smiling.)

She watches this scene with her feelings almost rising to the skies.

Sasamaru: Ah, Hiyo, welcome back!

Hiyo: I'm back, honey.

Sasamaru: Listen! They both came!

Hiyo: Oh my. It has become very lively here.

After hearing this, Hiyo seems happy too.

Araragi: Sorry for intruding.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun, I'm the woman who came here to force him into marriage, Harutsuge. Please treat me well.

Hiyo: I'm counting on your help, you two.

Hiyo: Ah, I don't need a woman for marriage. Though, I welcome an apprentice.

Harutsuge: So, she's jabbing correctly.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan is so diligent.

Harutsuge: Well, we should simply make this, right?

Sasamaru: Yeah! I'm counting on you!

Araragi: Hmmmm. You two are so good. I wonder if I can make it well.

Hiyo: First, we need numbers. To complete the necessary numbers in a short time. This is the number one condition to finish this project.

Harutsuge: And also, how to increase its accuracy, correct?

Hiyo: That's Harutsuge-san for you. Catch on quickly.

Araragi: I don't have confidence, but I'll work hard to not hold back everyone.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun says this, but the truth is that she's more skilled at this than anyone. You don't have to worry.

Hiyo: I know.

Araragi: Uuugh, the pressure.

Sasamaru: Well then, everyone. I'm counting on you.

Harutsuge: You don't need to ask, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: We've already decided we'll do it. So, this is our work too.

Sasamaru: Everyone...

Hiyo: Hehe. Well, honey. I will start my work too.

Sasamaru: Me too.

Harutsuge: Ah, but I want a team yell.

Araragi: All right, that sounds good.

Sasamaru: A-a team yell?

Harutsuge: That's right. And the one most suitable for it is you, Sasamaru-kun.

Araragi: Yup, yup.

Sasamaru: Bu...

Hiyo: Honey, you should simply speak what you're feeling now.

...My feelings.

Everyone is here. And everyone is a member who will complete this project.

So, I have only one feeling.

Sasamaru: Let's finish the "red team's" project together!!

The three: "Yes!" "Right!" "Right!"

Aah, they're smiling.
They can smile.

They're happily smiling.

We are smiling together.

*puff**puff*
*puff**puff*

I'm not trying to express the sound of smoke coming out of a chimney, like in a fairy tale.

This is the sound effect to directly tell our present situation.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi and Harutsuge are wholeheartedly putting their hearts into the project.

Hiyo and I too, but...
I feel that those two have a different air.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

We reflexively look at each other.
She's probably feeling the same thing as me.

She's feeling something like a "feeling of indebtedness" from the two.

An indebtedness from not helping until today, and an impatience toward the delay from this.

But this means...

Sasamaru: (Does this mean the two were worried about us this whole time?)

A smile reflexively escapes.

Aah, they really haven't changed at all.

But it's too sad if they're thinking, "it's our fault we're delayed."

This is merely something I started.
Everyone "chose to make the project together with me."

So, there's no reason to criticize.

There's only gratitude.

Sasamaru: (I wonder if there's a way to take off the tension.)

But the one who's unable to say something smart here is me, Suu Sasamaru.

I have a big head filled only with useless bits of knowledge, without any useful experience.
Also, with the punchline that I'm not particularly dumb.

Sasamaru: (Hmm.)

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: (Hmm, hmm.)

The fact that no ideas are coming up no matter how much I think is indicating my little life experience.

Hiyo: That's right, everyone.

At this moment, it's Hiyo who fires the first shot.

Hiyo: If it's all right with you, how about playing shiritori?

Araragi: Eh, no, i-it's fine. We'll work hard, okay?

Harutsuge: I'm happy you're being considerate, but it's our fault the project is delayed. Don't mind it.

I knew it.

Although, if I say "that's not true," they'll become even more obstinate.

Hiyo: But we two were always doing that while working.

Hiyo: You two have decided to tackle this project together with us. So, you must follow the rules.

Very good!
That's our Hiyo. I'd never have thought of a plan like that.

Araragi: O-okay...if you say so.

Harutsuge: A...all right.

The two finally bite the bait.

That's right. It's important to finish it on time, but it's in vain to make the project like this.

After all, we are formally doing a "class project."
It's better if everyone does it in perfect harmony.

Hiyo: Then, although presumptuous, I who gave the idea will start. "Tsukiyotake (moonlight mushroom)."

First, Hiyo lets out a word using her abundant knowledge.

Araragi: Ke, ke..."keiji (detective)."

Next is Araragi.
Sure, Araragi seems like a person who likes detective dramas...because she's a middle-aged man.

And next is Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: "Ji (hemorrhoids)."

Sasamaru: H-hey! Is that allowed? "Jidako (written kite)."

A Jidako is one of Japan's traditional cultures where you write something like "dragon" or "New Year's greetings" in large letters on a typical sketching kite.

Hiyo: "Koreratake (Galerina fasciculata)."

And again, Hiyo. Once more, a word coming from her vast knowledge.

Araragi: Ke..."Keshoudachi (a sumo term)."

Araragi uses a term from sumo. I can consent.
And next is Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: "Chichi (milk/breasts)."

Sasamaru: You basta...! Chi..."Chashaku (teaspoon)."

Chashaku is a utensil for the tea ceremony. This is also the Japanese spirit.

Hiyo: "Kusaurabenitake (wood pinkgill)."

Araragi: "Ke" again? Ke, ke..."KO."

And now boxing. Araragi-san doesn't betray my expectations.

Well, the problem is the next...

Harutsuge: "Oppai oppai (breasts breasts)."

Sasamaru: Why two times? Why did you say it two times? Is it important? Is it so important!?

Harutsuge: You really don't get it, Sasamaru-kun. Okay? Listen well.

Sasamaru: What now?

Harutsuge: A man repeats, "Breasts! Breasts!" two times because a woman has two breasts. This is statistical proof.

Sasamaru: Why are you casually saying that like a famous saying? Or rather, that doesn't impress me.

Harutsuge: This is what's wrong with hardcore lolicons.

Sasamaru: Don't speak it like a cold, hard fact.

Harutsuge: After all, you like small breasts. Listen. It's good whether there are breasts or not. Do not forget this.

Sasamaru: What famous saying is that?

Hiyo: Honey, you like small breasts, right!?

Sasamaru: Wait, why are you commenting on that? Why are your eyes so serious?

Hiyo: Honey!

Sasamaru: And now eyes filled with hope!?

Harutsuge: Hey, Sasamaru-kun. Your turn.

Sasamaru: That too is allowed? I, i..."Ishiwari-setta (stone-smashing sandals)."

Ishiwari-setta is a type of leather-soled sandals. There are iron fragments on the heel part. This is also Japanese.

Hiyo: "Tariumu (Thallium)."

...Wait.
I feel that Hiyo is silently speaking up names of poisons.

This just occurred to me, but why are we full-throttle with our personalities in a mere shiritori?

Araragi: What's thallium?

Hiyo: Thallium is a chemical element, atomic number 81, discovered by the English physicist William Crookes. It's known for the strong hair-loss effect...

Sasamaru: That's a preposterous poison!!

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: It's the worst. That poison is the worst ever. Poison should have rules too. That is not supposed to happen. Anything but that.

...And with all that, our project is advancing.

The objective is to complete the project, but it's not just that.

Sasamaru: (Yes. I must protect this air.)

It is the time together with everyone that I finally recovered.

Sasamaru: (I should simply work hard.)

I make anew my decision.

Sasamaru: (Yes, I should simply work hard. If I work hard, things will continue like this forever.)

And today again, we take our beds.

Sasamaru: I mean, it's way too late to say this, but...

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Sasamaru: I sure can manage to sleep among girls.

I suddenly collect myself and think back upon this situation...
despite having worried so much some time ago.

Harutsuge: So, you're trying to copulate with girls by sleeping together with them. Your ulterior motives are exposed.

Sasamaru: I hesitated because you would say that!

Harutsuge: I'm sure you said something to win over Hiyo-kun. You breeding horse.

Sasamaru: You approved it, didn't you!? On the second day that I came to school! After sluggishly getting up!

Harutsuge: Don't remember.

Sasamaru: Don't reme...

Harutsuge: Everyone, listen. Sasamaru-kun is trying to rape us one after another.

Sasamaru: What are you saying, sexual harassment queen!?

Harutsuge: Ha ha ha. Delightful, delightful.

Sasamaru: The hell is that happy face for? I'll sue you, ero-king!

Harutsuge: Hmpf. And you're always after us at every opportunity.

Sasamaru: I swear to the gods of heaven and earth that I'm innocent.

Harutsuge: Willpower means nothing to youthfulness. You say that now, but when everyone's asleep, your body...a certain part of your body will start feeling hot...

Sasamaru: It's all right. I was in panic at first, but I'm used to it now.

Experience is really fearsome. I can sleep with composure even in this situation.
I'll simply ignore the joke of that second half.

Harutsuge: Are you saying we are not worthy of assaulting?

Sasamaru: I'm not talking about that!

Harutsuge: How cruel...

Wow. She's so unfair.

Hiyo: Oh my, you're already gathered. What's wrong, Harutsuge-san?

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun, listen. Sasamaru-kun is...

Sasamaru: H-h-h-hey!

Hiyo: ...? I don't know well, but honey has the same face of a patient when my father says: "The illness troubling you doesn't have a name."

Hiyo: And he continues: "Your name might be used in the disease's name." It's that exact face.

Harutsuge: ...Hiyo-kun. I've been wanting to ask this for a veeeeery long time.

Hiyo: What is it?

Harutsuge: About your home. About the Kumigami household.

Hiyo: My home?

Harutsuge: Yeah. Speaking bluntly, the fact your house is wealthy is not because they're authorities of the medical world nor because they're directors of a large hospital.

Harutsuge: Isn't it because generations of genius doctors like your father and grandfather ripped off money from the rich people?

Harutsuge: Asking the rich people for an outrageous amount in exchange for a difficult surgery while not taking money from the poor ones by saying, "I wanted to hear those words!" Right?

Hiyo: Oh my, you're quite knowledgeable.

Harutsuge: It's true!?

Araragi: I think I heard that story somewhere.

Wearing pajamas, Araragi too arrives.

Harutsuge: The problem is if the first generation brought a child with inadequate speech ability.

Sasamaru: ...

I was vaguely feeling it for a while now, but...
this is like, "ah, I knew it."

Hiyo: "Such methods are necessary to treat even one more person." This is the Kumigami family's motto.

Harutsuge: Well, incurable diseases don't always target rich people.

Araragi: That's necessary to treat poor people for free.

Rather, I frankly feel that's a crime. But it's the Kumigami's wonder that I don't feel like criticizing them.

But is that okay? Isn't the punchline that they don't actually have a medical license?

Hiyo: It's just that father has too much confidence.

Harutsuge: Confidence?

Hiyo: Yes. In fact, he's competent enough to be praised as a genius by society, but, how do I say...he's actively accepting it too much.

Araragi: Hmm?

Hiyo: Well...he has already accepted as a fact that "he's a genius," and he has the absolute confidence that "he can cure any disease."

...So, he knowingly says jokes that make the patients worried.

Frankly speaking, he's a nasty doctor.

...I'm happy.

I feel very happy for this time, when everyone is chatting just like a long time ago.

And after all that, it's now time to go to bed.

Sasamaru: I'll turn off the lights.

Hiyo: Have a good night, honey.

Harutsuge: Good night, sex offender.

I'll ignore that.

Araragi: Zzz~

And Araragi is already sound asleep.

Sasamaru: Zzz, Zzz, Zzz.

.........

Peek.

Sasamaru: (I think Hiyo...has fallen asleep too.)

...All right.

//subchapter
A Heavy Luggage
September 30 (Wednesday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

Hiyo: Good morning, hone...

Sasamaru: Morning.

Hiyo: H-honey? Is...something wrong?

Sasamaru: ...Hmm? With what?

Hiyo: "With what"?

Sasamaru: Well, I'll work hard today too~

Hiyo: H-honey?

Araragi: ...

Araragi: Hic!

Then, breakfast.

A happy meal with everyone surrounding the table.

Every day has been filled with happiness.

And every time I feel it, my resolve strengthens.

Sasamaru: (I must...protect...)

The one on duty today is Harutsu...ge...

Araragi: Good morniiing...Hic!

Harutsuge: What's wrong?

Araragi: You see, my hiccups haven't stopped since this morning.

Harutsuge: How many times now?

Araragi: Huh? ...Hic.

Harutsuge: They say you die if you hiccup 100 times.

Araragi: There you go again with your jokes. If that were true, I would be dead a long time ag...hic. How many times do you think I have hiccuped since I was bo...hic. Still, it's very persistent today.

Harutsuge: You don't start counting from when you were born. You count on consecutive hiccups. How many times have you hiccuped since it started today?

Araragi: Eeeeeehhh!? I-if that's true, then I...might be in trouble soon...

Harutsuge: It might be good to start thinking about the poem to carve on your gravestone.

Araragi: Just kidding. You're not fooling me. To die from hiccups is just too much. Right, Hiyo-chan?

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: H-huh? That's not true, right, Hiyo-chan?

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: ...As I thought.

Araragi: Eeeeehhh!? Wa-wait, it was a joke, right!? Uuuhh, I-I will die!?

Harutsuge: So, the poem will be "Uuuhh, I-I will die!?" That's quite a shocking poem for those who will visit your grave. It's truly an agony filled with the reality of death.

Araragi: Stop with that weird admiration. And I don't want that poem. I mean, I don't want to die like thi~hic.

Harutsuge: Talk about selfish.

Araragi: Save me, my dear friends.

Harutsuge: Yeah. You will live forever inside my heart. I'll never forget you, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: I don't mean that, stop my hiiiccuuups!

Harutsuge: ...Mmnn.

Araragi: W-what? Did you have a good idea?

Harutsuge: No. I was thinking, "Sasamaru-kun isn't speaking much today."

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: He's...sleeping, right?

Harutsuge: What an ingenious way of sleeping. He's sleeping while eating the miso soup.

Araragi: Amazing...maybe, I think. Hic.

Harutsuge: He's not gulping it. It might overflow from his nose any minute now.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Hic! Uurggh...this is the 90th time...

Harutsuge: Ten times left.

Araragi: W-what do I do?

Harutsuge: Look here, Araragi-kun. I'll say this because I got bored from dragging on this topic, but to die from a simple hiccup is a...

Araragi: A hiccup is better if it's a hearty one like "hieeek" or "eeehic," right?

Harutsuge: That's what you're worried about? All right, I've decided to keep dragging on this topic.

Sasamaru: Uugh...

Harutsuge: So, you've finally woken up, miso-soup-in-nose man.

Sasamaru: My nose is tingling. Wait, how do you know it's the 90th time? A while ago, you were very vague with "soon."

Harutsuge: Humans prepared for death can turn the impossible into possible. Wait, you were listening?

Sasamaru: About half of it. But you're impressive for trying to convince me with that. In any case, only ten times left.

Araragi: Hic!

Harutsuge: Nine times.

Araragi: Stop iiit. Save meeeee.

Sasamaru: I heard that to stop hiccups, you need to swallow cooked rice whole or eat one grain at a time with the chopsticks.

Araragi: I already tried thaaat.

Sasamaru: You did?

Araragi: Yeah.

Sasamaru: (I wanted to watch the whole-swallowing scene.)

Harutsuge: It's about time for the background music of calling an ally to start playing.

Araragi: Stop saying scary stuff and heeeeelp meeeeee.

Sasamaru: Next is...to drink a cup of water all at once, to eat a spoonful of sugar, to drink a decoction of persimmon's calyx.

Araragi: I did that too.

Sasamaru: Then, the most basic ones. To give a surprise, or to place the hand on the chest.

Harutsuge: That's it.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: I'm sure the effect will double if you do those two at the same time. Sasamaru-kun, start rubbing Araragi-kun's breasts.

Sasamaru: Why on earth are you suggesting sexual harassment!?

Harutsuge: She'll get surprised if you touch it out of nowhere. This aspect of women never changes. We'll kill two birds with one stone.

Sasamaru: I think a man too will get surprised if you rub his chest, though.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. This is for Araragi-kun, our dearest friend.

Sasamaru: I'll say this as a warning, but your face has a half-smile.

Harutsuge: Well, Sasamaru-kun. Rub like mad Araragi-kun's cow breasts.

Sasamaru: Cow breasts?

Harutsuge: You didn't know? Araragi-kun looks extremely slim in clothes. She appears to have a loli physique, but her breasts are huge.

Harutsuge: Well, your motivation is sky-high, right? Rub it. Massage it.

Sasamaru: You kidding me!?

Araragi: If that makes it stop, I'm okay with it.

Sasamaru: Wha...!

Harutsuge: Look, she's a hero. The long-awaited hero has descended.

Sasamaru: No, wait. You're joking, right?

Harutsuge: Now, Sasamaru-kun. Araragi-kun is showing this much feminine spirit. What kind of man are you if you don't live up to her request?

Sasamaru: Why is your nasal breathing so rough? Also, where did you take that digital camera from? What do you plan on taking?

Araragi: I'm okay if it's...you, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Eh!?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you might even...help me.

Harutsuge: What a sweet temptation.

Sasamaru: Eh, no, wait.

Harutsuge: The boy's heart trembles despite the confusion. And, despite knowing it's something wrong, the boy, aroused by his sexual feelings, finally...

Sasamaru: Stop the monologue. And why did you put the digital camera in video mode?

Harutsuge: Ruuub it, ruuub it, ruuub it.

Harutsuge: You simply want to look at it, don't you?

Harutsuge: That's not true.

Sasamaru: (Shit. What half-smile is that?)

Araragi: W-well, come with all you've got.

Perhaps because she has resolved herself, Araragi bends her back and throws out her chest.

Sasamaru: Y-you...sure?

Araragi: Y-yeah.

My right arm is at her waist.
I slowly move it upwards a little.

Araragi: Nngh...!

With a startle, Araragi greatly trembles.

Sasamaru: H-here I go.

Araragi: O-okay.

My right arm advances.

I advance as if pushing my way through the silence, but, inside this windless air, my trembling fingertips are being pushed back.

This is the first time I feel the wall called air so thick.

Harutsuge: ...That's kinda dirty instead.

Sasamaru: Then, stop it!!

Harutsuge: But the priority is to stop Araragi-kun's hiccups.

Sasamaru: Uhh.

She just said something clever.
But that's a fair argument.
A fair argument? Really?

Harutsuge: Hey, start again.

Sasamaru: O-okay.

Hiyo: ...Ah.

Hiyo: O-oh my, I'm sorry. I was in deep thought.

Harutsuge: Ah.

Hiyo: ...Umm, Harutsuge-san. What are they doing over there?

Harutsuge: I tried to stop them. Desperately. But Sasamaru-kun wanted to rub them. He has lost control of himself and wants to massage them.

Hiyo: Massage? Massage what?

Harutsuge: The breasts.

Hiyo: T-the breasts? M-my breasts have nothing to massage. How cruel!

Harutsuge: No, I didn't say that. No one said that. By the way, what Sasamaru-kun is about to massage is Araragi's concealed breasts.

Hiyo: Wha!

Harutsuge: And, Hiyo-kun. What will you do? What will you do?

Hiyo: I'm bothered by your "an unexpected development with such a timing but this is fun in itself too" expression, but...how did it come to that in the first place?

Harutsuge: Well, the cause itself isn't that big a deal. Araragi-kun was convinced that "she'd die if she hiccuped 100 times."

Hiyo: I get the feeling someone was pulling the strings behind the scenes, but...I understood the situation.

Harutsuge: Ah. Sasamaru-kun's hand has finally...

Hiyo: Eh!?

Harutsuge: ...Has finally reached 3 meters of distance from Araragi-kun.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: You don't have to look so amazed. It'll gradually get closer. Right now, that's being moved by justice.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hey, hey. What will you do~?

Hiyo: T-they say all heroes like women. He is a great gentleman. It's natural that he does such a-sucha-su-chas-ucha...

Harutsuge: She's trembling, she's trembling.

Hiyo: B-b-but! I'm in no position to butt in. If he so desires, it's my duty to watch ove...

Harutsuge: Ah. It's finally right before Araragi-kun's eyes.

Hiyo: ...Nngh.

...Finally.

I'm finally right before Araragi's eyes.

Despite moving like rusted metal, my hand is finally right in front of Araragi's breasts.

One more step.

With one more step, the feeling of "What is this? Marshmallow?" will spread at my fingertips.

Sasamaru: Hah. Hah.

Here we go, Suu Sasamaru.

Resolve yourself.

Hiyo: Violently.

Araragi: HYAAAAAAAAAAAH!?

At this moment, the world freezes.

Sasamaru: Hi-Hiyo?

Hiyo: Hehe. Araragi-san, did I surprise you?

Araragi: Y-you scared meee.

Hiyo: How are your hiccups?

Araragi: Ah, they stopped.

Harutsuge: What!?

Araragi: All right! It was the 99th time! Thanks, Hiyo-chan!

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: What a disappointing face that is, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: No, that's not true. It's not. I'm soooo glad it stopped.

Hiyo: Just what kind of outcome were you hoping for?

Harutsuge: Eh? Like, when Sasamaru-kun is rubbing, I might say "I'll fiercely rub too!" and intrude like Hiyo-kun? Or like, turn into an orgy when we are locked in a grapple?

Hiyo: That's an impossible situation. Its relevance is unknown.

Harutsuge: What a let-down.

Sasamaru: Marshmallow...marshmallow...

Araragi: Huh? Sasamaru-chan is dazed.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Ah...s-speaking of which, Hiyo. You seemed to have spaced out. What happened?

Hiyo: Ah...it's nothing.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: Well, honey...

Sasamaru: Me?

Hiyo: N-no. It's...nothing.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: Yes?

Harutsuge: I love you!

Hiyo: The relevance is all the more unknown.

Harutsuge: Even so, I love you!

Hiyo: Ah, is that so? Me too, Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: Hehehe. I can't get enough of that apathy.

Sasamaru: (...That's right.)

To have fun with "everyone."

That's right.
I have to protect this air.

I must work hard for this.
I must advance the project, even if I have to do it alone.

...A feeling like carrying heavy luggage is assaulting me.

Sasamaru: (I'll work hard. I'll do it.)

I'm finally together with everyone.

Harutsuge: Hehe...Hiyo-kun, you're so cute.

Sasamaru: Your nasal breathing is rough again. No matter how much you get excited, your wish won't come true. Give up.

Harutsuge: Stop being stupid. Hiyo-kun is simply in the tsun phase with me. When she enters the dere phase...when that happens...!

Sasamaru: That's a tsun phase you don't quite know when it's gonna end.

But, well...

Sasamaru: ...Harutsuge really doesn't learn.

These two form a good comic duo.

Araragi: I don't know about Hiyo-chan, but Harutsuge-chan is being silly because she enjoys Hiyo-chan jabbing at her.

Sasamaru: As I thought.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan is...well, she has always been...

Araragi speaks and is searching for words.

Araragi: She has always been very fond of Hiyo-chan.

Aah, so, that's what she wanted to say. Typical of Araragi.

Sasamaru: That's true.

Yes, I too felt that a long time ago.

As Harutsuge herself says, I'm certainly slow.
I myself feel this too, but there are things I still don't know well.

Sasamaru: How do I say...I wonder if Hiyo is special for Harutsuge.

Araragi: Hmmmm. It's a bit different from special. It's more like a deification.

Sasamaru: Deification?

Araragi: Hmmmm...I can't say it well.

Now that she mentioned...I do have a feeling that's true.
But that's not worth mentioning.

It's strange to say that Araragi is jealous of this, but she doesn't appear to be harboring negative feelings.

I wonder what this is.

Before I noticed, Hiyo became like a little sister to me. I wonder if this is also true for Harutsuge.

She's not giving special treatment while neglecting her other friends, but she is somewhat meddling...
or maybe sensing danger.

Now, Hiyo is more reliable than anyone, but, due to our long relationship, these positions are hard to change.

Sasamaru: But it's not just Hiyo. Araragi too...and me. Harutsuge says all that, but she's taking care of everyone.

Yes. If I put it into words...

Araragi: Yup, yup. Harutsuge-chan is a big sister for us all.

Yes. That's how it becomes after putting it into words.

Harutsuge has always been in that position.

Kashi Harutsuge.

She has this impression that she's always angry and blunt. There are people who think she's hard to approach because of this.

But she has always been our boss.

Sasamaru: Because Harutsuge is our leader. Her behavior toward Hiyo must be an extension of this.

I can't say it well, so, I just speak the straight facts.

Araragi: Leader?

Araragi is with a surprised voice, perhaps because she has never sorted this out.

But I've always thought that.

The reason her role isn't so clear is that she's different from the "leader" image everyone knows.

For example, I'm a person that's nothing but vigor and energy, but Harutsuge prepares considerably and only acts when she must.

She's not always in command, but she's the one who gives the decisive words when someone's puzzled with "what do I do?"

With this meaning, she's a person with a strong influence.

And this Harutsuge is my aspiration.

Araragi: Hmmmmm.

I guess this hasn't reached Araragi yet.

Araragi: I think Harutsuge-chan is a bit different from a "leader." She feels more like a nice "big sis."

Sasamaru: I wonder.

I know the meaning of big sis, but...
still...

Araragi: For me, maybe the leader is you, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Eh?

I reflexively open my eyes wide at her very unexpected words.

Sasamaru: No, no, no. As long as Harutsuge is here, that's not gonna happen.

But then, Araragi and Hiyo are way more reliable than me.

Of the four of us, I'm the most distant from that position.

As a man, I feel bad about this, but it's the truth, I gotta accept it.

But I think Araragi is trying to be considerate of me.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, I think you're misunderstanding yourself.

Sasamaru: I think it's a correct self-evaluation.

Araragi: Hmmmm, how do I say...Sasamaru-chan, you're the type who always works hard.

Sasamaru: ...Works hard?

Not understanding the meaning, I parrot her words.

Araragi: Yeah. A person who's always thinking, "I'm lacking this, I'm lacking that," and doesn't spare efforts for this. That's the Suu Sasamaru-chan I know.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Araragi: I wonder what this is. The genius of hard work, Sasamaru-chan, has already obtained everything he wants as a result of his hard work, but he himself doesn't realize this. It's something in these lines.

Araragi: That's why you insist, "I'm still not good enough," and continue to work hard while acquiring incredible experiences, but the self-evaluation always slips like that.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: That surprised face is proof you weren't aware of this, right?

Sasamaru: Well, that's impossible. Impossible.

Araragi: {\i1}Impossible is impossible.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Well, you don't have to make it look cool like that. And what is that strange pose about?

Isn't Harutsuge having a bad influence on you?

Araragi: I feel that the more you speak about it, the more you prove that my point is correct.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: Of course, not in a bad meaning, okay? I think a person stops growing when they fool themselves by saying, "I'm so perfect." It's important to gain experience.

Araragi: But I think one can't advance to the "next step" if one doesn't have a little self-awareness about how much real power one has.

Sasamaru: "Next step"?

Araragi: Yeah. Basically, you get better at anything by practicing and gaining experience, right? But if you keep repeating the same practice, you won't have a practice fitting for your real strength.

Araragi: For example, if an upperclassman who was chosen as a regular team member keeps doing the same practice as a new member, they won't go higher than that, right?

Araragi: You're able to do things you couldn't. So, the next step becomes obvious. I think there's a training fitting for that person's real strength.

Araragi: But Sasamaru-chan. You think, "I want to continue being an ace," even after becoming one and keep repeating the new member's training.

Araragi: So, you have the basics mastered, but you don't go to the next step. You're bad at applying things. Not actually bad, you just don't know how to do it.

Araragi: You don't know what to do when faced with an unexpected situation.

Sasamaru: Err, in short, you're shredding my chest with a knife of very sharp words.

Araragi: Ah, sorry, sorry! That's not it!

Araragi: Hehehe. Looks like the conversation went in a weird direction.

Sasamaru: I'm half crying here. Sniff.

Araragi: Errr, anyway, Sasamaru-chan. I think you're too good. Sorry for the weird topic.

Sasamaru: Too good, eh.

Araragi: Yeah. From my point of view, you're someone very reliable.

Sasamaru: Hmmm?

I vaguely understand what she's trying to say, but I'm not that person.
I'm still a new member.

Araragi: How do I say...Sasamaru-chan, you're the type to "practice after getting a little more skill."

Sasamaru: ...?

For one moment, I don't quite understand the meaning of her words, but...
after thinking about it, I think, "ah, that's a very good roundabout expression."

Araragi: Well, that might sound bland coming from someone like me.

Sasamaru: No, that's exactly...

I'm about to say, "why you're amazing."

Araragi: But...Sasamaru-chan, you work too hard.

Sasamaru: You're not done?

Certainly, I do feel that "I must work hard."
Because I'm still not putting out enough effort.

Araragi: ...Umm...hey, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: Err...u-umm.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: ...Don't be so eager, okay?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: The {\i1}dark circles{\i0} under your eyes are painful to look at.

Sasamaru: Eh...

Hiyo: ...And in the end, Harutsuge-san. What is the nature of the offense you want me to complain about?

Harutsuge: The offense of loving you.

Araragi: Ah, okay. There, there. There, there. You two, get along now.

Arara...gi?

Same day, after class.

When I'm about to head to the water mill, my ears pick up something.
It is the quarreling voices I remember hearing once.

It is a blind spot from outside the window.
There's a black team student surrounded by the white team's...

Sasamaru: (They're at it again!)

I can see Araragi, who probably rushed there afterward.

I think of rushing there too, but the events from last time cross my head. The Jin Reiji man in question said, "don't get in my way."

Then, in this case...

Sasamaru: (I can't do that!)

In the end, I run off, just like last time.

Jin: ...You all. Could you stop it already?

And now, for some reason, Jin Reiji is scolding us.

Araragi and me. And also Harutsuge, who appeared out of nowhere.

Ah, the Araragi & Harutsuge Alliance managed to disperse the white team fellas.

And for some reason, Jin Reiji took offense at this fact.

Jin: I'm sure I asked you not to get in my way. Why do you keep taking away my supreme time?

Sasamaru: Well, it's not "taking away"...I mean...

Jin: You interrupted, and now you're even talking back!?

Sasamaru: Yes, I'm sorry.

Huh? This is odd.
This is so odd!

Sasamaru: But...well, even if you were having fun, we can't turn a blind eye to what the white team fellas were doing.

Jin: Is there a problem in myself being pleased!?

Sasamaru: Well, it doesn't matter if you were having fun. The problem is that they're using that as an excuse to do whatever they want...I think, maybe.

What I'm saying is correct, but the strange thing is that, for some reason, we must guess his mood.

Jin: ...

Sasamaru: Am I wrong?

Jin: ...I'm sure they have their troubles. They're clearing their grief by venting them onto myself.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Jin: I-it's nothing. Anyway, you shouldn't worry about myself. Please keep enjoying your school lives. You're an annoyance instead.

Sasamaru: I can't just keep watching, can I?

Araragi: ...Hey, Jin-kun. At the beginning, you looked with sadness at what the white team people were doing...didn't you?

Jin: ...

Araragi: Despite that, why did you suddenly...start saying that?

Jin: Well...

Araragi: Yeah.

Jin: It's because I awakened to masochism while I was receiving their sadism, their {\i1}love{\i0}.

Araragi: Err...

Jin: In the first place, are you actually thinking things through? If you keep this up, you might become their next targets, you hear?

Jin: If such a thing happened, I'd have become a target for no reason.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: ...

Jin: Oh...ahem. Anyway, please refrain from anything unnecessary. Do you understand!?

After declaring with an asserting voice tone, Jin Reiji disappears.

Sasamaru: ...

"If you keep this up, you might become their next targets."
"If such a thing happened, I'd have become a target for no reason"?

Sasamaru: (Does that mean...)

Don't tell me he's...

Harutsuge: Well, that's about it, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge. You were aware of that?

Speaking of which, Harutsuge hasn't said a word the whole time.

Harutsuge: I'm a pervert. I can immediately see through a real pervert and a fake one.

Sasamaru: Right now, I think you're very persuasive.

Harutsuge: He too loves this school. He's trying to protect this school in his own way...and also trying to protect the livelihood of everyone studying at this school.

Araragi: By turning himself into a target?

Harutsuge: Correct. This isn't something anyone can do.

Sasamaru: But this method is just...

Harutsuge: Yes, it's not praiseworthy. But not all humans have power. He must understand this more than anyone. That's why this is "his own method."

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: If that's his method, we should simply persist with what we believe is correct. No matter how much we annoy him or what he says, I do not plan to change my methods.

Araragi: That's right. Yes, nice one, Harutsuge-chan!

...
......
.........So, everyone's asleep.

Sasamaru: (Well, I'll be going.)

I spur my unstable knees and my slightly trembling legs and stand up.

I stealthily exit to the hallway as to not wake everyone and head again to the water mill.

Stealthily, stealthily...

?: Ah, Sasamaru-chan.

I timidly turn around to this voice.

Sasamaru: A-Araragi?

I'm surprised.
Araragi is normally the first one to fall asleep, but she's awake at this time.

Araragi: Going to the bathroom?

Sasamaru: A-ah...something like that.

Araragi: Hmmmm...

After muttering, Araragi fixedly stares at me.

Araragi: Then, let's go together.

Sasamaru: Eh!?

She says this with a smile.

Sasamaru: T-toge...ther?

Araragi: Yup. I wanna go where you're going, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: {\i1}Can you go with me?{\i0}

...I'm cornered.

For now, I'll go to the bathroom, return...
and slip out after Araragi falls asleep.

Sasamaru: (Still, to go to the bathroom together is just...)

I wonder if she's scared of going alone.

She's not usually awake at this time, so, she must be feeling scared of going to the bathroom at night, like in childhood.
Well, this is possible, but...

Sasamaru: Let's go...then?

Araragi: Yeah. Could you wait a little?

Araragi suddenly disappears into the hallway and...

...returns in her uniform.

Sasamaru: ...

I'm blinking my eyes in surprise when Araragi cheerfully calls out to me.

Araragi: Sorry for the wait. Let's go.

Then, Araragi and I walk through the nighttime hallway.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. May I ask something?

Sasamaru: What is it?

Araragi: Err...well...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan. Are you still angry?

Sasamaru: Angry?

What is this about?

Araragi: Yeah. If you're angry, say it, please.

Sasamaru: Err, angry? What should I be angry about?

Araragi: You're not angry?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

If there's something I should be angry about, it's my ever worthlessness.

Araragi: Then, maybe we still aren't...in the same class?

Sasamaru: Eh?

...Oops.
We are chatting and, before long, we arrive at a corner.

The bathroom is right after turning here.
I'm about to turn at the corner here...
but...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, it's not that way.

Sasamaru: Eh?

For some reason, Araragi is facing the entrance.

Araragi: I said that I wanna go where you're going, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: I said the bathroom.

Araragi: Did you want to go to the bathroom?

Sasamaru: Eh?

What does she mean?

Araragi: Why don't you change your clothes? You'll get a cold if you go outside at this time.

Sasamaru: ...Araragi?

Araragi: I said, {\i1}"can you go with me?",{\i0} remember? Sasamaru-chan, were you planning to go alone?

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you're...shouldering it alone, right?

Sasamaru: Shouldering?

Araragi: Isn't it heavy?

Sasamaru: W-wait a minute. Araragi, what are you talking about?

Araragi: We're in the same class, aren't we? We're friends from the same class, aren't we?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: That project is our red team's project...isn't it?

Sasamaru: That's right.

Araragi: Then, why are you working so hard alone?

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Araragi: We're from the same class, so, let's do it together. Harutsuge-chan and I, we didn't say we'd do it together in order to make you work alone, Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi: Will we be late if we don't hurry? Then, just say so. We'll work together and finish it on time.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Why are you shouldering it alone, Sasamaru-chan? It's heavy, isn't it? Let's carry it together.

After saying that, Araragi shakes her head and corrects.

Araragi: Let us carry it.

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: ...

...Araragi noticed it.

She's...considering it like this.

Araragi: Please.

Saying this, Araragi holds out her hand to me.

Araragi: If we're going, let's go {\i1}together{\i0}, okay?

Araragi: Let's go {\i1}create our project{\i0}, okay?

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Please.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

I take her hand.

Sasamaru: I...I'm sorry.

That's right.
There's no meaning if I do it alone.

That's our project, the red team's project.

Araragi: I don't need that word. Please take your friend's hand firmly.

After her words...

...I strongly clasp her hand.

Araragi: Yeah <3

...Huh?

Suddenly, it got lighter.

Sasamaru: (I feel like my back has gotten lighter.)

As if she was carrying half the luggage.

//subchapter
Sasamaru's First Love
October 2 (Friday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

After school.

After arriving at the water mill like always, Harutsuge is already here.

Sasamaru: You're early.

And I came straight here after the class was over.

Harutsuge: Let me stay here for a while. I won't be satisfied otherwise.

Sasamaru: ...

I scratch my head and start my work.

Sasamaru: What is it? Are you still with a guilty conscience?

Harutsuge: Exactly.

Sasamaru: I already said it.

Harutsuge: I can't help but have a guilty conscience.

Harutsuge flatly says this.

Harutsuge: It's fine if I keep worrying time and again, but you'll worry too. So, in order for me to forgive myself as soon as possible, here I am.

Sasamaru: ...

Typical of Harutsuge.

Very manly, as always.

Sasamaru: Then, let's give our best today too.

Harutsuge: Yeah. Let's do it.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...

And thus, we start working in silence.

Some time ago, I was worrying about this work's mood, but...
the nuance now is different.

It's understandable that we stop chatting after immersing ourselves in the project.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

However, it's Harutsuge who breaks the silence.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: There's something I haven't told you yet.

With a somewhat meek expression, Harutsuge faces me and sits on her knees.

Harutsuge: ...Err, well, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Well...

Sasamaru: Stop that.

I have a guess about what she wants to talk about.

Sasamaru: You did nothing wrong. You simply told me your feelings.

At this late, I know there's no need for apologies or anything.

But if you think about the personality of the girl called Harutsuge, she can't bear to leave matters unsettled like this.

Harutsuge: But I said horrible things to you.

Sasamaru: That might be so. But now, you're making the project with me. This is enough for me.

Sasamaru: Is an unnecessary apology really necessary?

Harutsuge: ...

For a while, Harutsuge is with an unsatisfied expression, but...

Harutsuge: ...Got it.

Harutsuge: I'll stop my apology. In exchange...

Harutsuge: Thanks.

Harutsuge: I'll simply say my feelings, then.

Sasamaru: ...It's kinda strange to be thanked.

Harutsuge: It's not strange at all.

Harutsuge: I thank the fact of being able to create the project together with you.

After looking at the smiling Harutsuge, I think, "ah, this is the Kashi Harutsuge I know."

Sasamaru: Nice one, big sis.

Harutsuge: Big si...

Harutsuge: ...W-what did you say?

Sasamaru: Well, a while ago, I was talking with Araragi about how "Harutsuge is like our big sister."

Harutsuge: Eh...

After showing a startled expression, Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: Errrrrrrr...w-what's that about?

Sasamaru: Err, well, I rather want to ask, "what's that reaction about?"

Harutsuge: Uh, no, it's nothing. Nothing.

Sasamaru: Okay.

I don't quite get it, but I wonder if there's something bothering her.

Harutsuge: Hmmmm.

While working, I summarize the other day's conversation and the result...
is this reaction from Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: Err, I won't say to be deeply moved, but I think there's a more suitable reaction for this.

Harutsuge: This is the correct reaction. She means a leader. I too think you are more appropriate, Sasamaru-kun.

Harutsuge says the same thing as Araragi.

Sasamaru: Why is that?

Harutsuge: You ask why, but we've always acted with you in the center. At this late, it's impossible to change our perception of this.

Sasamaru: Me in the center? Absurd.

This is the time for "hmmmm."
I was the one who "was accepted as" their friend.

Harutsuge: You were leading us. In fact, our relationship changed just because you left.

Sasamaru: Changed? But everyone was on good terms, right?

Harutsuge: 'To be on good terms' is completely different from 'to gather as a single group.'

Sasamaru: Is that so?

Harutsuge: Ah, I get it. You don't understand this because you're not self-aware.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

I'm more and more confused.
I simply followed everyone as to not be left behind.

Harutsuge: Well, fine.

Looking at me tilting my head, Harutsuge indifferently concludes.

Harutsuge: You shouldn't force someone to recognize himself as a leader. Along with "these aspects," you're actually attracting all the girls in the world.

Sasamaru: What's that about?

Harutsuge: Whoa, that's a calm and composed statement. A snobby attitude all right.

Sasamaru: I didn't quite get that, but should you really say those words to a man who never had a girlfriend?

Harutsuge: Such men exist, surprisingly. Popular ones who never, ever dated.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Yes, the world sure is a vast place, but this doesn't apply to me at all.

Harutsuge: Wow, wow. Die already.

Sasamaru: Why are you cursing me for merely tilting my head?

Harutsuge: I am not wrong. That's why I say this. Die already.

Sasamaru: Aren't you too much know-it-all?

Harutsuge: I am not. Die already.

I'm about to tilt my head for the third time...
but I don't.

Harutsuge: Die already.

Sasamaru: You'll say that even if I don't tilt my head!?

Harutsuge: Whether you move or not, it doesn't change the fact that you don't understand.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge-san, this world has something called kotodama, the power of words. It might actually happen if you keep saying it.

Harutsuge: Now I heard something good. I'll keep repeating it. And with a loud voice.

Sasamaru: This is a light bullying, right?

Harutsuge: You're the one bullying.

Wow.

Harutsuge: Well, you'll eventually realize it, so, I'll say this. I'll take sides with neither of you.

Sasamaru: Neither? You mean whom and whom?

Or rather, "take sides"? What's she talking about?

Harutsuge: There.

Sasamaru: Ouch! What was that for!?

//text on screen
Bomp

Harutsuge: Sorry. I thought you weren't there.

Sasamaru: I've never heard of that excuse!

Harutsuge: Just a little bit more. Think hard about it after correctly accepting each and every matter. You should see things you didn't see before.

Sasamaru: E...rrrr?

Harutsuge: Well, I won't say to do it now. It's too late to say it, though.

Sasamaru: Aah...sorry for everything.

Harutsuge: Don't you ever think, "maybe she likes me?" after a trifling action from a girl?

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: How strange. This is very common for a virgin.

Sasamaru: Shut up already! And don't decide it all by yourself!

Harutsuge: Are you not? Despite being a barefaced virgin?

Sasamaru: ...I have no way to reply if you say it like that.

Harutsuge: You smell like a virgin.

Sasamaru: Stop attacking after I already admitted it!!

"Smell" of virgin?

Harutsuge: Well, leaving the truth aside...

Sasamaru: ...

I have no room to retort, but even I will cry if you corner me too much, all right?

Harutsuge: In fact, how is it?

Sasamaru: Speaking frankly, there's no girl who would fall for me.

Harutsuge: Wow, wow. Get bald already.

Sasamaru: I AM NOT BALD!!

Harutsuge: ...Huh?

Sasamaru: What? Huh? Hey, Harutsuge. Don't you know about light refraction? It's refraction. Refraction, you hear?

//text on screen
*Grrrr*

Harutsuge: So, that was a taboo word.

Sasamaru: Huh? Taboo? Huh? I don't get it.

Harutsuge: Err, I'm very, very sorry.

Sasamaru: For what? Why are you apologizing? There's no reason at all for an apology. Ah, I don't get it. I don't get it at all.

Harutsuge: Err...anyway, I just wanted to say that I understand. You really think that "there's no girl who would fall for me." I'm very sorry.

Sasamaru: But those are my true feelings and also a fact.

Harutsuge: Why do you think "there's no girl"?

Sasamaru: Well...

Or rather, I don't know the reason for you to be asking "why."
Because it's me, you know?

Harutsuge: Have you ever fallen in love?

Sasamaru: I have.

Harutsuge: Right? Then, you...

Sasamaru: I love you all.

Harutsuge: What an embarrassing line.

Sasamaru: But that's a fact.

Harutsuge: ...Well, I somehow knew that. I was naive for trying to imply it by showering you with questions.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: I guess my point isn't getting across. What I mean is feelings of passion.

Sasamaru: ...Passion?

Harutsuge: Yes. Passion.

Sasamaru: ......

Harutsuge: Isn't that pause a bit too long?

Sasamaru: No, but, err, passion?

Looks like Harutsuge is angry at my behavior.

Harutsuge: Aah, jeez. I'm talking about the feelings you had toward Araragi a long time ago.

Sasamaru: Eh.

I'm taken aback for one moment.
And Harutsuge makes a face of "oh, no" after it.

Sasamaru: I...and Araragi...what?

Harutsuge: Aah...uh...

Harutsuge is briskly scratching her head.

Harutsuge: Well, now that I've said it, I can't turn back.

Eventually, she says this, as if resolving herself.

Harutsuge: Long ago, you liked Araragi-kun.

Sasamaru: Well...I do like Araragi.

Harutsuge: Your feelings for her are different from feelings of "like" toward other people, right?

Sasamaru: Huh...huh?

My feelings for Araragi are different from feelings of "like" toward other people?

Harutsuge: ...

For a while, Harutsuge is with a complex expression, as if she was worried or perhaps stumped about something.

Harutsuge: Right, so, that's what it was.

Eventually, she sighs as if consenting but still disappointed.

Harutsuge: So, you have come all this way unaware that {\i1}this{\i0} feeling is "love."

Sasamaru: No, w-wait a minute. Why are you so dead set it's love?

Harutsuge: What are you talking about? Girls love connecting everything to love.

Sasamaru: But you're not a person to do that, are you?

Harutsuge: I feel you innocently said something rude to me.

Sasamaru: Well, I'm seriously asking.

Harutsuge: I'm serious too. You were unconsciously following Araragi-kun with your eyes. I was sure that was love...or maybe a feeling still immature but very close to love.

Sasamaru: On what grounds?

Harutsuge: I naturally felt this in your eyes, in your behavior, in everything you do regarding Araragi-kun.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: To fall in love is not something difficult like you think it is. This is very apparent for an outsider.

Is that true?

Sasamaru: Amazing.

Something even I don't know is transparent to others.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, are you a love specialist?

Harutsuge: Ha ha ha. Ask me anything.

Sasamaru: I'll ask then...err, do I like Araragi even now?

Harutsuge: Dunno.

Huh?

Sasamaru: Love specialist?

Harutsuge: What is that about? Stop turning others into a specialist character.

Sasamaru: Try to remember the chat from moments ago!

Harutsuge: And what are you expecting from an innocent young girl?

Sasamaru: 'Innocent' my foot.

Harutsuge: If you want to know who you like, ask your heart. Or rather, things are so complicated exactly because you don't make this clear.

Sasamaru: What is...complicated?

Harutsuge: I spoke too much.

Harutsuge clears her throat, as if making a short pause.

Harutsuge: As I said earlier, I'll take sides with neither of you. I plan to accept the outcome that you...that you two choose.

She says this while looking straight at my eyes.

Sasamaru: ...Honestly, I have no idea about it, but...I know you're saying all that after seriously thinking about everything.

Harutsuge: Correct. Think for yourself about the rest.

Sasamaru: Got it.

Harutsuge: Also, die already.

Sasamaru: No, wait.

And so, without understanding much, the listless after-dinner time arrives.

Due to returning to their rooms or going to take a bath, Hiyo and Harutsuge are absent.

That's why it's only Araragi and I here in the living room.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Hmm?

Perhaps due to noticing my repeated glances, Araragi suddenly faces me.

Araragi: What's the matter?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing.

In panic, I avert my eyes.

Araragi: ...?

Sasamaru: (Shit. I'm now strangely conscious because Harutsuge said those things.)

I understand what Harutsuge tried to say to me.

I want to correctly accept and think about it.

But this is still very vague and elusive for me.

I don't know how to start thinking about this, so, the only trail I have are the matters she pointed out.

Sasamaru: (I liked Araragi, eh.)

The pure Araragi.

My innocent and pure childhood friend who approaches anyone naturally.

Energetic but composed, and somehow tender.

Sasamaru: (The girl who has what I don't.)

And right now, this girl is watching television.
Its sound flows into this room as a BGM.

Purosuke: Purosuke...

Perako: ...and Perako's...

Purosuke & Perako: ...Bad talking, branch-off editiooon.

Perako: My, another sluggish moment has come, eh?

Purosuke: Already slovenly!?

Perako: But it's so sluggish. I'm remarkable just to be alive. I shouldn't even be doing this job.

Purosuke: Umm...that statement will be a bad influence on the youngsters, you should refrain from...

Perako: Well, a "sorry for being alive" man like you works until he can no longer stand up to finally give a tiny bit of value to his life.

Purosuke: You're so cruel.

Perako: ...

Purosuke: ...

Perako: ...

Purosuke: Pe-Perako-san?

Perako: Well, today's script is a bit different from usual.

Purosuke: There's a script!?

Perako: Yes. So, I'll be cursing 30% more than usual.

Purosuke: Now that you mention, I do feel you're crueler than usual.

Perako: That's proof you're not grasping the character. It's a good example that you shouldn't do what you can't.

Purosuke: But I think you're usually a bit more...

Perako: ...

Perako: According to the script, "Perako has the 'Rotten Battle' ability. It's exclusively used against Purosuke and enables her to give him several status effects."

Purosuke: What is that appendix setting about!?

Perako: I can't change it. It's in the script. I really can't change it.

Purosuke: And you look so happy!?

Perako: Then, let's try it. I'll use the "Rotten Battle" now. Dhaaaaaarr!

Purosuke: The sound effect is kinda weird, you know!?

Perako: "Poison"!

Purosuke: Whoa! My health is decreasing at every step!

Perako: "Confuse"!!

Purosuke: Hehehehehe, all the girls under a certain age are mine.

Perako: "Sloth"!!

Purosuke: ...Hmm? Huh? Perako-san?

Perako: Oh, no. This is the everyday Purosuke.

Purosuke: How rude!

Perako: "Exposure"!

Purosuke: I shall protect Perako-saaaaaaan!!

Perako: Pu-Purosuke?

Purosuke: Yes!

Purosuke: Ah, no, well...that just now was a...yes! The script! It's in the script!

Perako: There's no script.

Purosuke: Huh!? B-but you just said...

Perako: I just wanted to see your true feelings.

Purosuke: Pe-Perako-san.

Perako: Purosuke.

Purosuke: Perako-san...no, Perako.

Sasamaru: (What third-rate play is that?)

Ah.
Araragi changes the channel.

I'm starting to have a heartburn due to the strange program, but, thanks to her, I recover my presence of mind.

Yes, now we're the same as always.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: W-w-w-w-w-what is it what is it!?

Araragi: W-what's the matter?

Sasamaru: Ah, err, it's nothing.

I guess the restored presence of mind is fake.

The moment our eyes meet, my heart rate suddenly skyrockets.

For times like these, there's the Sasamaru-style mental concentration.

Sasamaru: (There actually was punishment for traffic accidents in the Edo period. It was applied to horses, cows, and rickshaws, but the punishment was unthinkably severe for today's standards.)

Sasamaru: (Depending on the case, confiscation of all assets, decapitation, and, on top of all that, the remaining torso was used as material for testing new swords.)

There, Sasamaru Time complete.
Good. I've calmed down a little.

Sasamaru: (Still...)

It appears it's hopeless after I've become conscious of it.
I keep thinking nonstop about it, and I can't clear my mind.

Sasamaru: (So, this is the "thickheaded" that Harutsuge said?)

I'm aware that I'm thickheaded.
The world is full of things I don't know, and I'm also bad at guessing.

So, maybe...

Sasamaru: (As Harutsuge said, I might not have realized my feelings.)

Araragi: You're strange today. Is something wrong?

Sasamaru: No, no, it's nothing. Sorry, sorry.

Why am I apologizing?

Sasamaru: (But...wait.)

I suddenly realize.

Harutsuge said, "very apparent."
In short, it's "clear to everyone."

Sasamaru: (Does this mean Araragi too noticed?)

I feel a little embarrassed after thinking this.

Araragi: W-what happened, Sasamaru-chan!? You reacted like a cliché joke from the seventies and eighties!

Sasamaru: I didn't think a washbowl would come down.

Araragi: Are you okay?

I collapse on the floor. Araragi peeks at me with her large, round eyes.

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing, I-I-I'm fine.

I'm used to seeing her, but now I'm nervous because I'm conscious of her.

Araragi: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Yes, I'm fine, really. Don't worry about me.

Araragi: Hmmm.

She reacts like "I'm not convinced, but if you say so."

Sasamaru: And, what is it?

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: You were about to say something, weren't you?

Araragi: Ah, yes.

It's typical of Araragi to forget about her own business when she's worried about others.

Araragi: The TV, the TV. It said, "what's your ideal woman?"

The TV program Araragi points to is one segment of a seeming variety show.

...Umm, excuse me, Mr. TV.
Why are you doing such a specific program now?

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Yes?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, what kind of girl is your ideal type?

There, look! This is what happens when you do that!

Sasamaru: (No, no. I'm simply over-conscious. This is only a chat. A chat.)

I keep telling myself this and answer as harmlessly as possible.

Sasamaru: Hmm, like a big-tight-big figure?

But what kind of answer is that? Think before answering.

Araragi: That's old, very old, Sasamaru-chan. The bank president said that "thinking things on the reverse is just right," you know?

Araragi: So, today's craze is "tight-big-tight."

Sasamaru: No way. That means tiny breasts. And that's a harmful figure when you think about the measurements. Or rather, what kind of body shape were you going for?

That's what you get when you take things at face value.
I knew it, "Araragi rule" really is "Araragi rule."

Araragi: Ahaha.

Out of a sudden, Araragi sweetly smiles.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: You're finally back to the usual Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: ...

...She got me.

She got me. I'm really throbbing now.

What do I do?

Araragi: Ah...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi focuses on the TV again.

It appears the next segment has started. They're doing the "when you fall in love with the same person as your friend."

Araragi: ...

I suddenly feel that Araragi's eyes have a hint of seriousness.

Well, I mean, my heart rate is abnormally rising, you see?

I want the TV to take a hint already. Or may I change the channel now?
She's still watching, right? It's not good, right? Okay, got it.

And while I'm panicking, the show ends.

Araragi: "Friends" are really complicated.

With her back to me and looking at the TV, Araragi mutters this with her eyes still on the TV.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. For example, let's say there's a group of very close friends.

Araragi: I think these friends must know about...each other's feelings.

Araragi: They might not say it out loud, but...they must value each other very much.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: So, maybe...maybe if two friends from this group fall in love with the same person...that will be very complicated, right?

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, what would you do if it were you? What if you fell in love with the same person as your valuable friend?

Sasamaru: Let's see...if it were me...

I ponder for a while, and...

Sasamaru: If it were me, I might hand over to my friend.

Araragi: Okay.

Because friends are more important than anything.

I don't want to prioritize my wishes and worsen our relationship.

Sasamaru: ...I think.

I add this because I'm not really sure what "love" means.

Harutsuge said all that, but I don't know if my childhood feelings were love.

That's why I think this.

Sasamaru: But doesn't that happen in a group where the boys and girls' ratio is one-sided? Such a thing doesn't happen every da...

Araragi: What are you talking about? We are like that, aren't we?

Sasamaru: ...Ah.

There's one boy among the girls.

Sasamaru: T-then...does this happen between...us too?

Araragi: Eh, ah.

After I say this, Araragi suddenly panics.

Araragi: T-that not always true. I think it's the same if friends fall in love with the same person, even if they're not in the same group.

Sasamaru: Sure.

That makes sense.
Looks like I'm bad at thinking about things related to love.

I usually don't think much about it, but I also don't think more than usual.

Sasamaru: ...

"I just want everyone to be happy."
This is the only thing I think about.

I don't think this way of thinking is wrong.

But if there's something a little wrong, it might be not "I'm happy if everyone is happy" but "I'm happy only if everyone is happy."

People think I'm like a kid, ignorant about the world because I never cared about this until now. I feel just a little bit embarrassed.

Sasamaru: Err...

Araragi: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Sorry for bringing this up again, but as you said, if this happened between people in the same group, what on earth should I do?

Araragi: What to...do?

Sasamaru: Won't everyone's relationship become...complicated?

I'm scared of this happening.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, do you believe in love at first sight?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: Do you?

Why out of nowhere?

Sasamaru: Uh...hmm, many people talking about it means it exists, but it never happened to me. I can't really say it.

Sasamaru: Araragi, do you believe in it?

Araragi: No, I don't.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Araragi: Because I too never experienced it.

Then, what is the meaning of her question?

Araragi: I think it's still fine if you fall in love at first sight.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Araragi: With love at first sight, you find out more about the person afterward, right? You imagine what kind of person they are; they must be like this and that...you have expectations, become uneasy, your heart beats fast...

Araragi: But it's different when you fall in love with someone close. The longer your relationship is, the more you know about each other's good and bad points, right?

Sasamaru: It seems so.

Araragi: If you fall in love despite all this, then it must be real love. It's different from looking only at the surface or falling in love because of a small misunderstanding.

Araragi: You're saying "I like you" after looking at that person's true nature, right?

Sasamaru: Yeah...that's true.

Araragi: If two good friends fall in love with the same person, it must be really complicated.

Got it. That's what she means.

Araragi: They're good friends. They might tell each other that they like the same person. Both might refrain from doing something.

Araragi: Because they like the love rival. The rival is a good friend.

Sasamaru: So...in short, the relationship will become complicated?

Araragi: Well...yes. They must feel unbearable to be in the group.

Sasamaru: ...

What kind of despaired face am I making?

After looking at me, Araragi smiles as though she was bothered and continues, as if trying to calm me.

Araragi: But it's the opposite.

Sasamaru: The opposite?

Araragi: Yeah, the opposite. The relationship won't get complicated.

Her words, denying her previous statement, are very unexpected.

Araragi: Because they like the person, but also like their friend.

Araragi: So, it'll get complicated, but it'll be fine.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Without understanding, I tilt my head.
I feel that she cut short something important.

Sasamaru: In short, doesn't that mean you're holding back?

Araragi: It's not holding back.

Sasamaru: But...if that happens, the one in pain will be the one who realizes their feelings later, right?

Araragi: eh...

For one moment, it appears like Araragi trembles at these words.

Sasamaru: There's a group where friends trust each other. And if they like the same person...

Sasamaru: One of them will show their feelings first. Also, both know they're good people because they're friends, right? So, you want to root for them.

Sasamaru: You think about not butting in as to not worsen the relationship, right?

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: So, the one in pain is...

Araragi: I...I'm not in pain!

Sasamaru: ...Araragi?

Araragi: Ah...

Surprised, Araragi covers her mouth.

Araragi: I-I...I...

In the blink of an eye, Araragi's cheeks blush.
But at the same time, her expression is becoming worse and worse.

Sasamaru: Are you okay?

Nervously peeking at my face, Araragi seems afraid.

Araragi: E...even in that situation, it's not painful.

Araragi: You said this, didn't you? You should just yield to the other party. That won't happen if you yield.

Sasamaru: Y...yeah.

Araragi: The relationship will become complicated if you fight each other...and it's better to draw back rather than fight each other...right?

Sasamaru: Yeah. That's what I think.

It's much better than worsening a relationship with a friend.

Araragi: T...that's right. If one gives up like that, it means that person's "love" was weak.

Her tone of voice seems a little...
just a little irresponsible.

Sasamaru: "Weak"? It's not a competition, okay?

Araragi: Yeah, it's not a competition, right?

Sasamaru: ...Araragi?

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: What's...wrong?

Araragi: I think anyone will feel this after looking at true "love."

Sasamaru: True...love?

Araragi: Yeah. They won't...quarrel.

Araragi: If you know there's someone who likes the person you like much, much more than you...a quarrel won't even start.

Araragi: Because you're no match for the other.

Araragi: There will be no struggle, either.

Araragi: ...You will just be overwhelmed.

Sasamaru: Ara...ragi?

Araragi: ...

I wonder what Araragi's expression means.

She is making a face as if she wasn't the girl I know.

Araragi: It's just...even knowing one has no chance of winning...

Araragi: If you know you like him...you like him so much, so much...so much that other boys don't even come into view...

Araragi: Then, perhaps...

Araragi: ...Maybe she might distance herself from that boy.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: For example, this is only an example. If the boy had his reasons and was unable to see each other for some time...That would be very, very cruel, but I'd feel relieved.

Araragi: Because it would be a chance to put distance between them.

Araragi: You won't hate each other this late, but still, the feelings throb when facing each other. It's the chance that God granted her.

Sasamaru: ...

This "chance" Araragi speaks of...

...it's something very kind, but also...very sad.

Sasamaru: ...Is that how it is?

Araragi: Yes, she's the unfair one.

Araragi: When the boy disappears, she'll think, "Ah, she'll get sad. Isn't there something I can do?" but she'll still feel relieved.

Sasamaru: And...if that boy reappeared?

Araragi: She'd be happy.

Sasamaru: Happy?

Araragi: Yes. Because she would smile again.

Sasamaru: ...Right.

These words are very typical of Araragi, but...

...for some reason, this story became very restricted out of nowhere.

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Why?

Araragi: ...Huh?

Why are you...

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Why are you...crying?

Araragi: If I...give my best and say, "I'm here," what would you do?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: Give your best...eh? What do you...

Araragi: ...

Araragi: I knew it...it's complicated.

When the overflowing tears fall from her cheek...

...she appears to be unable to sit still...

Sasamaru: Araragi!?

...and rushes out of the living room.

Harutsuge: Oh.

And she bumps into Harutsuge, who has just returned from the bathroom.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun?

Araragi: Ngh!

Harutsuge: Hmm? Hmmmm.

For a while, Harutsuge looks at the back of the running Araragi and at me, left behind in the room.

Harutsuge: It's your fault!!

Without considering anything, she flatly points at me.

Sasamaru: Me!? It was me!?

Harutsuge: Yes, it's your fault. When Hiyo-kun or Araragi-kun makes a sad face, it's always your fault.

Sasamaru: How can you affirm that?

Harutsuge: Enough, go after her, you idiot.

Sasamaru: Ah. T-that's right!

I quickly rush out of the living room.

Harutsuge: Aah...jeez.

After heavily sitting on top of the tatami, Harutsuge lets out a large sigh.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. Since when were you...

Hiyo: ...Well...

From her difficulty in speaking out, Harutsuge guesses that Hiyo was there for quite some time.

From the situation, something happened between Sasamaru and Araragi.
But, unable to enter the room, Hiyo simply stood still.

Summing up, she might know the reason that Araragi rushed out of the room.

Harutsuge: I'm sorry, Hiyo-kun.

Harutsuge lowers her head.

Harutsuge: I thought it was normal to make him chase her. My male brain could only come up with that.

Hiyo: You don't have to apologize.

Harutsuge: Sorry. I've decided to not take sides.

Hiyo: You're always correct. No hesitation and also impartial.

Harutsuge: You're overestimating me.

Hiyo: No. Everyone knows this.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: Because I put my personal feelings, our relationship has gotten one notch more complicated.

Hiyo: We have no right to speak about that fact itself. For a long time, you've always silenced your personal feelings while taking care of us.

Harutsuge: I said, you're overestimating.

Hiyo: In any case, regarding my and Araragi-san's issue...

Hiyo: ...The one who will decide is him.

Harutsuge: That's...right. It's exactly as you say.

Sasamaru: Araragi!!

It might have been luck that makes me catch up with her.

Because when I left the hallway, Araragi was already nowhere to be seen.

At this late, I'm having feelings of regret for not immediately going after her.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry.

What I said must have hurt her feelings.
That's why she's making this face.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

This is the only thing I can say.
Because I don't know which words hurt Araragi's feelings.

To apologize without being aware of what I'm apologizing for...I'm really the worst.

Araragi: ...N...no. Me too, sorry.

But Araragi, as if saying she knows even this, tries to evade it with "it's nothing."

She never wants an apology.
If the other party gets angry, sad, or apologizes, she simply says, "me too, I'm sorry."

When forgiving someone who didn't apologize, not even once does she say, "I want you to apologize first."

She always forgives everything.

She feels sorry for making the other party sad and having them apologize for making her sad or, rewinding a bit further, hurting her feelings.

That's why...
she's like this.

Sasamaru: Frankly speaking, I don't know how I hurt your feelings, Araragi.

I believe I should say it honestly.
I want to apologize correctly because I know that's how Araragi is.

Because I've known her since we were little.

Araragi: Ah...it's fine, it's fine. Don't worry about it.

I knew she would say that. I might hurt her even more if I forcefully question her.

Sasamaru: But I want to know where I was wrong and properly apologize.

That's why I'll back down if Araragi says "don't worry" one more time.

If I keep pressuring even after this, it'll be simply for self-satisfaction.

Araragi: ...It's fine. I'm used to it.

Sasamaru: ...Right.

Now I'm lost.
Today's Araragi is really harsh.

"I'm used to it."
Huh.

Looks like I'm half-baked too.

Now that I've made her feel terrible, I want to kowtow or something and make her cheer up even a little, but...

She doesn't wish for this. I know she's a girl who won't cheer up with this. I fail in coming up with a good idea.

Araragi: I'm sorry, Sasamaru-chan. Let's go back?

Araragi is already smiling.

She's with her cheerful smile as ever.

It's because her personality is like this that the words "full of energy" and "innocent" don't come to my mind when I look at her smile.

Judging from her impression, such a face isn't strange, but I know I'm just seeing the surface.

The more you know about her, the more her smile appears as "cheerful."

Like a holy mother who forgives all sins.

Sasamaru: Got it. Let's go back.

In the end, this is all I can say.

I can only succumb and resign to the broad-mindedness unfitting for her small body.

If I really liked Araragi just as Harutsuge said...

Sasamaru: (I wonder if I was attracted to this part of her.)

Even while questioning myself like this, I like her too much as a friend and as a colleague. I'm unable to distinguish if this is love or not.

I don't have an answer.

Standing side-by-side, we two walk through the everyday road to the dorms.

A bamboo thicket stretches left and right.

"Bamboo."
The summer of the "Four Noble Ones."

Now, it is illuminated by the lights prepared on the walkway and creating a dim space.

The bamboos are being illuminated.
They are granting a moment of refreshment and clear comfort to passersby.

...Such as the "orchid" walking beside it.

Araragi: It's no good like this.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

But not the "bamboo grass."

Araragi: The balance is already broken. I'm no good.

An existence that simply imitates the bamboo.

A fake that the noble ones accepted simply because they're noble.

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Facing down, the noble one of spring suddenly makes a smile.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. Do you remember "playing house"?

Sasamaru: Playing house? You mean...that one where Hiyo was the wife?

Araragi: The second one.

Sasamaru: The second one. I think Hiyo was the wife too, right?

Araragi: Uuuhhh...you don't remember.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: Look, the second time playing house, I was the wife at the start, remember?

Araragi: Hooray!

The role of husband was decided, so, they decided the role of wife with rock-paper-scissors.

And Araragi won.

Hiyo was staring blankly at her hand that let out the scissors, and Harutsuge was complaining, "I wanted to be the husband instead."

But in the end...
Araragi couldn't be the wife.

Because Hiyo started crying soon after we started.

She kept crying even after we asked why, so, I didn't know the reason. But, from her intermittent words, I could tell she wanted to be the wife.

It was rare for Hiyo to be so selfish, and we couldn't control her crying, so...

Araragi: ...And that's how the wife's role changed.

Sasamaru: Did that really happen?

In the end, Hiyo was the wife. I remember that, but...I didn't remember that Araragi was once the wife.

I have confidence in my memories with everyone, but it appears some are nothing more than faint memories.

But Araragi remembers even these things that I forgot. Which means these must be unforgettable events for her.

Araragi: Yes, it did. Because there was a person who wanted very, very much to be your wife.

Sasamaru: Wanted to be the wife?

It was simply a make-believe. That expression might produce misunderstandings, okay?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you were married to me, but you left me and clung to Hiyo-chan.

Sasamaru: Eh? Is that true?

Araragi: Yup.

Wait, "yup"? And you're even nodding so naturally?

Araragi: That's why you're a one-time divorcee, Sasamaru-chan.

Whaaaaaaat?

Araragi: Which reminds me, I didn't receive any compensation.

Sasamaru: Do recent laws apply even to marriages when playing house?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, I was happy to be your wife, you know?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: So, even a make-believe has meaning. It's important.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Gimme the compensation.

Sasamaru: Even if you ask "gimme☆" with a cute voice, I don't have money to spare right now.

Araragi: It's not money.

After saying this, Araragi looks up at the sky.

Lured by her, I also tilt my head. A full starry sky is extending there.

Araragi: I think that compensation has a very bad image due to the effect of television, but...I think it's actually something to forcefully make you accept everything.

Sasamaru: ...Accept?

Araragi: I think the couple must have had amazing dreams when they got married.

Araragi: A future you can keep smiling with that person. A future you can be happy with that person. A future where you can stay together forever with that person. This is why people get married, right?

Sasamaru: That's...true.

I believe marriage is exactly that.

Araragi: But they couldn't grasp it. It didn't go as they wished. They disagreed with each other.

Araragi: After it has ended, there's no point in saying which one was wrong. I'm sure both were wrong. Both had mistaken something.

Araragi: That's why the outcome was a "divorce." Otherwise, they could have started over.

Araragi: But the fact is that they once wanted to live their whole lives together with that person.

Sasamaru: ...

That's right.
Araragi's parents are...

Araragi: Both can't bear it...unless they compensate with something. Their hearts will break otherwise.

Sasamaru: So, that's the "compensation"?

Araragi: Yes. So, it doesn't have to be money.

Araragi extends her hand toward me, and...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, hand over something as proof of your feelings for me.

Sasamaru: Why are you saying "hand over"?

From her reasoning, must it be something from when we were playing house?

Sasamaru: Ah.

I got it.

I take the wallet from my pocket and take out an object from it.

It's my treasure that I've always been carrying since childhood.

Something from the manual arts, where I met everyone.
I had made a papier-mâché ring.

The class teacher said, "use something you like as the motif."

Then, for some reason, I made something imitating the "sun."
An item from my memories.

Araragi: That's the...

I place this ring on Araragi's hand.

I used this as a wedding ring in those days of playing house.

Sasamaru: I wonder if this will please you.

Araragi: Thanks.

Araragi smiles.

This smile is different from her usual one.

A smile as if she suddenly became an adult.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Yes.

Rather than happiness, it's a smile of relief.

Araragi: Thanks.

Sasamaru: Y-yeah. If that's enough for you...

Araragi: No, it's not that.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: Thanks for gathering everyone together again.

Araragi: I haven't really thanked you yet.

Sasamaru: You don't have to.

I'm supposed to thank you.

Araragi: I thought those days would no longer return. Because I'm like this, you see?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: I really mean it, thank you.

Sasamaru: ...

Suddenly...
my vision becomes blurred, as if the feelings I was bottling up overflowed.

I'm happy.
I feel something warm filling my chest.

Araragi: Do...don't cry~

Sasamaru: I-I'm not crying. Not crying.

Like always, Araragi makes her somewhat troubled but gentle smile.

Araragi: Then, I'll cry together with you.

Sasamaru: Wait, Arara...

Araragi: Thanks.

Araragi: If I have this, I'll be fine.

Saying this, Araragi proudly displays the ring.

......Ah, that's right. It has always been like this.

The reason for Hiyo always being a "little sister" and always being a "girl" inside me.

Although from appearances, she had something of a "little sister" in her.

The reason that Araragi was a "girl."

//subchapter
The Meaning of Love
October 3 (Saturday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

"I wonder what 'hypocrisy' is."

I remember Araragi muttering this once...

...while scratching her head with "they often call me a 'hypocrite.'"

Sasamaru: ...

Recently, the number of times I think about Araragi has increased.

And I realize I'm feeling happy about this.

Day off.
As usual, I come here after finishing the meal.

After a while, Hiyo will arrive again.
Eventually, Araragi and Harutsuge will too.

Despite feeling guilty toward everyone, I again start working together with Hiyo as always.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

But Hiyo seems a bit strange.

I don't know exactly how, but she looks somewhat depressed...
and also restless, as if she was agitated.

Sasamaru: Hiyo. What's the matter?

Hiyo: Eh? About what?

Hiyo makes her usual smile.
Was it my...imagination?

Sasamaru: It's nothing.

It didn't go well. But maybe it's not a matter to pursue further.

That's right. In times like these...

Sasamaru: Hiyo, may I ask something?

Hiyo: What is it?

Sasamaru: What is the meaning of "hypocrisy"?

Sasamaru: There, Hiyo.

This is the exchange we always do.

Hiyo: "Hypocrisy," you say?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Hypocrisy means...to keep up appearances or to behave like a good person, right?

Sasamaru: There's also pretending to be evil, but...in this case, one usually acts evil, but he's in fact like an abandoned cat or someone you can't ignore.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: But...it doesn't quite fit.

This is what has been bugging me for a while now.

Since the quarrel with Araragi and Aone the other day.

Hiyo: Hypocrisy, "the stage's pretending role."

Hiyo: The actor who acts in a pretending role is simply acting like it's written in the script. It's not his real feelings. So, it became the root word for "hypocrite."

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: But honey. What you want to hear isn't this, is it?

That's our Hiyo. She's fast.

Harutsuge: Oh.

Then, Harutsuge arrives.

Harutsuge: Shit. What is that speed about? We were all eating breakfast at the same time, but why is there such a difference?

She's still fussing about that.
I'm grateful, but you're fast too. You don't have to worry so much.

Harutsuge: Next time I'm late, take a fine from me.

Sasamaru: I don't need it.

Harutsuge: Stop saying that and take it. I'm still going easy on myself.

Sasamaru: I said I don't need it.

Harutsuge: Take it.

Sasamaru: No.

Harutsuge: Then, take my whole wallet.

Sasamaru: Even more, no.

Hiyo: That's quite a rare conversation. "I'll give money" and the "I don't need it" reply.

Harutsuge: Is that so? You hypocrite.

Sasamaru: I can't take money from you, okay?

Harutsuge: Take it already.

Sasamaru: Stop overturning this chat's premise.

Harutsuge: Punch me, then.

Sasamaru: The hell I can do that.

Harutsuge: I have no choice. You may massage my breasts, then.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Hey. This hypocrite thought about it.

Sasamaru: No, you're wro...!

Hiyo: I knew it. He likes...likes...breasts...

Sasamaru: Aaaaaah, that right, Harutsuge! That "hypocrisy"! I want to ask you about hypocrisy!

Harutsuge: ...Isn't that the "theory that human beings are essentially evil"?

These are the first words Harutsuge says after listening to me.

Sasamaru: Theory that human beings are essentially evil?

Harutsuge: Yeah. The ideology that people are inherently born evil. If you think based on this, maybe you can understand the truth of hypocrisy.

Sasamaru: But how?

Harutsuge: It's simple. Human nature is evil, so, any good deed is a falsehood. They're taking an action outside human essence. So, it can only be a lie.

Sasamaru: ...Sure.

How do I say...blunt like a sledgehammer.
Typical of Harutsuge, though.

Hiyo: That's a bit different. Originally, the theory that human beings are essentially evil claimed that "anyone can become a saint through effort."

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san, what you're saying is a common incorrect use. For the philosopher Xun Kuang, who advocated that theory...no, perhaps for that age or country...

Hiyo: "Evil" was merely a very natural "desire." It's different from the "evil" definition from this country and also from this age.

Sasamaru: A natural "desire"?

Hiyo: Yes. Desires such as "I'm hungry" or "I want to see something pretty" or "I want the easy way." There are cases where this is portrayed as "sloth" but you don't call it "evil," do you?

Certainly, that differs from our perception of "evil."

Hiyo: Therefore, one can become a saint with enough effort. This is the original meaning of the theory that human beings are essentially evil.

Sasamaru: A saint.

Hiyo: The saint in this case is Confucius.

Right, that's the legendary saint from China.

Hiyo: Even Confucius wasn't born a saint. He became one as a result of much effort. That is, an acquired effort. And the theory that human beings are essentially evil advocates this.

Harutsuge: Good. Well, if Hiyo-kun is saying that, it must be so.

Harutsuge: But even if the concept I said is a mistake, it's a fact that "this way of thinking" also exists, right?

Harutsuge: I don't mind if there's a different word. If you base yourself on "this way of thinking," you have the answer to "hypocrisy," don't you?

Hiyo: It's exactly as you say. You can say that Christianity's "original sin" also advocates this theory. But this too is based on the "theory that human beings are essentially evil" that you speak of.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, what do you think?

Sasamaru: I...let's see. I think this is just rationalization.

Sasamaru: Ultimately, "good" and "hypocrisy" are things felt with the heart.

Araragi: Feelings of "don't want to be hated."

Araragi: Feelings of "wanting to be liked."

Araragi: I wonder if this is why people are kind to others.

Harutsuge: That might be so. Though, this might sound weird coming from me.

Hiyo: As a general perception...any good deed carried out in order to satisfy a desire like vanity or contentment is called hypocrisy.

Harutsuge: It certainly is. Actions done while sensing another's gaze can generally be called hypocrisy.

Hiyo: It's a bit hard to grasp its boundaries.

Harutsuge: Isn't it "for the sake of others" or something?

Hiyo: It's hypocrisy if it's for the sake of others? Then, to jump out to the street and risk one's life in order to save someone else's child is hypocrisy?

Harutsuge: Hmmmm...then, actions that make others feel indebted.

Harutsuge: Actions that wish for gratitude, even if you don't plan on creating a debt. Things with a state of mind like "I'm doing you a favor" or "you're grateful for this, right?"

Hiyo: That certainly is an act to be called...hypocrisy.

Harutsuge: That's a strange way of putting it.

Hiyo: In the first place, it's unclear who and on what grounds this person decided that another's actions were "good" or "hypocrisy."

Harutsuge: Doesn't a third party decide it? You can't do a good deed if you think, "I'm wrong." Of course the person themselves feels they are correct.

Harutsuge: Meaning that the person himself has a subjective idea. You can't call it an accurate decision.

Hiyo: Even a third party can have subjectivity. The matter becomes "who will be the impartial judge."

Harutsuge: Hmm. This has become complicated.

Harutsuge: To begin with, no matter the person, like hell you're gonna keep quiet if someone decides your actions as "good" or "hypocrisy."

Hiyo: Oh my, we are venting our anger, aren't we?

And splendidly.

Harutsuge: But Hiyo-kun. I think that to take action in order to show to others really is hypocrisy. That's why this conversation is meaningless.

Harutsuge: You should simply do what you think is right. Just persist with it. Do not care who talks behind your back.

Hiyo: Oh my, how manly.

Harutsuge: Did you fall in love with me again, Hiyo-kun?

Hiyo: To fall in love again, I must first fall in love with you, which is impossible.

Harutsuge: Aah, I can't get enough. Today will be a good day.

Sasamaru: (Well, that's how it is.)

I too think it's as Harutsuge said.
No matter how much we think, there won't be an answer.

Then, you should simply persevere with what you believe in.

The question about whether your actions are "good" or "hypocrisy" is...

Sasamaru: (...Thinking too much.)

An answer so easy, but also so certain that it makes one lose interest.

Sasamaru: All right. Thanks, you two. That's a good reference.

Hiyo: And, honey. What's the matter with hypocrisy?

Sasamaru: Well, I just wanted to hear your opinions.

What is "hypocrisy"?
I wonder.

Harutsuge: It's this late already.

Sasamaru: Wanna have lunch? I brought it here with me.

Yes, I'm on duty today.
I thought everyone would be here and made a portable lunch.

Hiyo: What is today's menu?

Sasamaru: Ah, today is sand...

...Huh?
It's not in the basket.

Harutsuge: Today is sand? Looks like quite the stimulating meal.

Sasamaru: Sorry. I forgot it at the dorm.

I thought I put it in here, but I didn't pay attention.

Hiyo: Ah, I'll go get it.

Sasamaru: Hey, hey. I'll go get it in a flash. Wait a little.

Hiyo: But...

Harutsuge: That's right, Hiyo-kun. Let's obediently wait here. Just we two, at this closed room. Closed room.

Hiyo: Honey. I am feeling danger. Please let me accompany...

Sasamaru: But Harutsuge will be alone like that. I'll return in a minute.

Harutsuge: Gu he he he he.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: War stance, eh. You have grown up, Hiyo-kun. I'm so happy.

Sasamaru: I'll be going, then.

Harutsuge: Ah, that's right. Sasamaru-kun, sorry, but could you check on Araragi-kun for me?

Sasamaru: Araragi? Is she in the dorm?

Harutsuge: Yeah. I think she's still sleeping.

Sasamaru: ...That's unusual.

That's an unexpected reply.
Araragi always sleeps soundly and wakes up very early.

Harutsuge: That's true. I woke her up when I was leaving, but she fell asleep again.

Araragi wasn't present at today's breakfast table.

According to Harutsuge, who went to wake her up, she was quite tired and fell asleep. She then decided to leave her alone, but...

Harutsuge: But it's already this late. She might feel bad if she realizes we were considerate and let her sleep alone.

Certainly.
Harutsuge sure knows her well.

Sasamaru: I'll check on her while I'm at it, then.

Harutsuge: Ah, I'm counting on you. Also, if there are sweet voices coming from this room when you return, take a hint and be considerate, okay?

Hiyo: There!

Harutsuge: Hmpf, trying to poke my eyes, eh?

Hiyo: I'm sorry. I didn't think you'd be there.

Harutsuge: You have grown, Hiyo-kun. I'm very happy and sad, and also in pain.

I leave the workplace and head to the dorm.

And then...

Sasamaru: ...Huh?

When I think that the clouds seem awfully menacing...

...it starts raining when I'm approaching the dorm.

Unfortunately, I don't have an umbrella in hand, but the dorm is just ahead.
There won't be any problems if I hurry.

I think that I have time to spare, but it turns into an unexpected heavy rain.

I can hear thunder in the distance.

Sasamaru: (Phew...I'm sopping wet.)

I must change my clothes first.

I think I'll take a bath while I'm at it.

Sasamaru: Phew.

I feel refreshed.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Oh, no.

In a hurry, I had brought the towel but forgot my change of clothes.

There's not much distance from here to my room.

I don't know if Araragi is still sleeping, but...
my room is closer to this spot than the bedroom, her room, and the living room.
We shouldn't bump into each other.

Although, just in case...
After drying myself, I tightly fasten the towel around my waist and head to my room.

Sasamaru: (Looks like quite a heavy rain.)

There are no spare umbrellas at the water mill.
I have to bring umbrellas for everyone later.

Sasamaru: (Whoa.)

I'm not scared of lightning. I'm merely startled.

It's just roar and lightning when I'm not prepared.

Sasamaru: ...

This is similar to something. I wonder what.

Ah, that's right.
Lightning is similar to skyrocket fireworks.

I arrive at my room with nothing worth to be called a problem. Maybe because I was too cautious.

Sasamaru: (Well, I'll first change my clothes and head to the bedroom.)

I wonder if Araragi is awake.
And the moment I step further into the room...

?: Uuuuuuhhhhh.

Something like a moan rumbles inside the room.

Sasamaru: W-who's there!?

It is a heavy sound.
A moan like an alert small animal.

I carefully look around the room and notice an unnatural round object in the corner.

Neatly on the hanger by the corner, there should be the new winter clothes that I ordered.

//text on screen
*Shivering*

But, for some reason, the round object on the floor is also my winter clothes.

The brand-new uniform is already wrinkled.

Also, it's trembling a little.

Sasamaru: ...Umm. Hello?

?: Uuuuuuhhhhhhh.

//text on screen
*Eeeeek*

What small animal is that?

Sasamaru: Araragi-san? Just what are you doing?

In this dorm, the only living being of that size is Araragi.

Araragi: L-li-li-lig-lig-light...

...Light?
...Hair?

You're wrong, okay? It appears thin because of the dim light, you hear? It's true, okay?

Araragi: L-li-li...

Sasamaru: No, really, really.

Araragi: T-t-the l-l-l-lightning i-i-i-is...

...Lightning?

Sasamaru: Ah.

Which reminds me, Araragi said she got surprised with the skyrocket fireworks when she was little.
Wait, she's also scared of lightning?

Is that why she's trembling in the corner?

But why in my room?

Sasamaru: It's okay. We're inside a building.

Araragi: Li-lightning, thunder, thunder, thunder!

I guess she isn't listening to reason.

Well, everyone has something they hate for no reason.

Araragi: I'm scaredscaredscaredscaredscaredscared.

Sasamaru: But, Araragi. You don't have to curl yourself like that.

Araragi: I'm scaredscaredscaredscaredscaredscared.

Sasamaru: Hey, Araragi.

Araragi: I'm scaredscaredscaredscaredscaredscared.

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: Moai.

Araragi: Moaimoaimoaimoaimoaimoaimoai.

This is kinda fun, but how should I deal with this?

I have confirmed if Araragi was awake or not, but I can't leave her like this.

And the moment I think this...

...a noticeably strong thunder resounds along with a flash of lightning.

Strong enough that even I unconsciously startle at the sudden loud sound.

Sasamaru: Whoa!

I reflexively look outside and quickly return my eyes to Araragi.

Sasamaru: Araragi, are you oka...

After turning around, what is reflected in my eyes is...

...the scene of a small animal jumping out from inside the nest.

Araragi: Eeeeeeeeeeeeeekkkkk!!

Sasamaru: Arara...

Sasamaru: Egh...nngh.

Araragi: S-s-s-s-save me, Sasamaru-shan, Sasamaru-shan.

She's crying. Araragi tightly hugs me, without letting go.

Sasamaru: Wait, Araragi. Wait a minu...

Araragi: Scaryscaryscaryscaryscary.

Sasamaru: Wait, I know you're scared, but wait a minute. I just came from the bath and am only with a bath towel.

Araragi: carycarycarycarycarycary.

Sasamaru: No, wait!!

I don't know what you're saying, but, why on earth are you trying to crawl under the bath towel?

A nest? Is it a nest? Yes, there certain is a warm shagginess similar to a bird's nest, but...
WAIT!!

Sasamaru: Waitwaitwait, Araragi, wait a little!

Araragi: Evacuateevacuateevacuateevacuate.

Sasamaru: Whoaaa don't crawl in thereeeee!

Araragi: Evacuation site detected, evacuation site detected, starting evacuation measures at once.

Sasamaru: NOOOOOOOOOO!!

A-a-a-a-a-anyway, I must first calm down Araragi!!

Sasamaru: Calm down, Araragi. Yes, that's a warm place and with an air perfect for hibernating, but it's not a place to avoid a foreign enemy!

Araragi: Cave discovered, cave discovered.

Sasamaru: Wait, it's not a cave! Or rather, at the deepest part, there's just a pole to close up a cave!

W-w-w-w-w-what do I do in a time like this?
How on earth can I calm down Araragi!?

At this moment, a scenery crosses my mind.

Yesterday, after I returned to the dorm with Araragi.

After escorting her, a girl I'd seen somewhere blocked my path. She had a suspicious mantle and a suspicious handlebar mustache.

Sasamaru: Whatcha doin', Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: I am not Harutsuge. Call me professor.

Sasamaru: Whatcha doin', {\i1}prufessur?{\i0}

Harutsuge: Say it more formally!

Sasamaru: Oh, what is it that you are doing, professor?

Harutsuge: Hmm. I be in grief.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Harutsuge: Good heavens, you do be helpless. You do not understand a thing about girls.

Sasamaru: Ah, yes...that's true.

Harutsuge: And I myself, professor Girler, shall kindly lecture you about it.

Sasamaru: It's not a little bit stylish if I say it formally, professor Girler.

Harutsuge: This is for Araragi-kun!

//text on screen
*Slap*

Sasamaru: What was that for!?

Harutsuge: If you have complaints, I shall deal Hiyo-kun's one too.

Sasamaru: Why is Hiyo's name here?

Harutsuge: Listen well. You must simply whisper sweet words to a girl. You shall win her with a single swing.

Sasamaru: Did you casually say something rude just now?

Harutsuge: There, try saying some sweet words. I'll hear ya.

Sasamaru: Chocolate. Shortcake.

Harutsuge: A joke so cliché that I don't even want to jab. Die already.

Harutsuge: But whatever. That's the gist of it.

Sasamaru: Decide if you're praising or belittling!

Harutsuge: I'll belittle, then.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry. Please praise instead.

Harutsuge: You're the type that ends up with nothing done when you think too hard about things. You should simply remember the gist of it.

Sasamaru: Just now, I think you casually said something very painful.

Harutsuge: Well, go forth, my disciple. Whichever path you choose, do it better. Don't make her cry. Also, die already.

Sasamaru: That's too much information in a single sentence! I don't need that last one!!

Harutsuge: Hahaha, farewell. Let's meet again.

And with those last words, professor Girler disappeared into the city's shadows...
no, into the hallway's darkness.

I'm not sure why I'm recalling this, but...

...this might be Heaven's voice telling me to follow Harutsuge's teachings.

I kinda feel this might be seemingly correct.

Sasamaru: (Sweet words, huh.)

Sweet words, sweet words, sweet words.

Hmm, nothing comes to mind.
It's useless, professor.

Ah, that's right. A fun story.
A fun story to distract the trembling Araragi.

Sasamaru: Oh yeah, Araragi. Long ago, I kinda liked you.

Araragi: Eh?

Araragi's movements suddenly stop.

Sasamaru: Something like that. So weird, right?

Araragi: Bu...eh...

Sasamaru: You won't laugh?

Araragi: Lau...gh...eh, but, why are you talking like it's someone else's business?

Sasamaru: Eh, well, I don't know much about what "like" is about.

The feeling of "liking" everyone is clearly inside my chest, but...

Sasamaru: But if Harutsuge says, it must be so. After all, she's always right.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: It's a...kinda weird story. But I have been troubled about this for a while now.

Sasamaru: After Harutsuge told me this, I've been strangely conscious of you, Araragi.

Araragi: Eh.

Sasamaru: It's so weird, isn't it?

Araragi: ...

As I thought, this topic is hopeless.

Sasamaru: Sorry for the boring story.

Araragi: I-it's not boring!

Sasamaru: Eh.

Araragi: Eh, ah, I'm sorry.

Huh?

I wonder what this feeling is.

My chest feels strangely warm...
as if I was a bit cheerful.

Sasamaru: How odd.

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: Araragi, when I'm with you, something feels odd.

Araragi: ...What do you mean?

Sasamaru: It's kinda...warm.

Ah, this feeling...it's the same feeling when I first started living with everyone.

But it's different. It's a curious feeling.

Sasamaru: A cat.

Araragi: A cat?

Sasamaru: No, it's not that. Hmm...a kotatsu.

Araragi: A kota...tsu?

Sasamaru: That's also not it.

I can't express it well, but I'm sure this feeling is...

Sasamaru: "Araragi," right?

Araragi: M...me?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I'm sure this feeling is the girl called "Araragi."

Araragi: ...

Sorry, Harutsuge.
I can't find sweet words.

As I thought, I can only let out the words that are inside me.

Sasamaru: Hey, Arara...

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: (...Huh?)

Araragi is looking at me with intense eyes.

They appear wet somehow. I have the impression that Araragi's temperature is frightfully increasing, as if her breath had a rush of blood.

Araragi: I...I...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: I...I have...

At this moment...

...a heavy thunder, incomparable with the ones so far, roars.

Araragi: EEEEEEEEEEEKKKKKKKK!!

In one instant, Araragi springs up.

She clings to me like a crash.
I somehow endure the momentum that almost makes me fall, and we end up in a strange position.

Sasamaru: ...It's all right.

I whisper with a gentle voice in order to calm her down.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: It's all right.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: Okay?

Araragi's trembling finally stops.

Araragi: Ah.

But she still isn't raising her face.

She's looking at my crammed chest, as if glaring at the ground.
And when I think she'll finally let me go, her eyes are still on my chest.

Araragi: U...umm.

And then, only a small voice like a whisper reaches my ears.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: Umm...well...

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: Well...

When she finally looks up at me, her face is on the verge of tears.

It was a thunderous roar like that.
I'm sure it must have been scary for a girl who doesn't like lightning.

Sasamaru: It's all right.

Araragi: Yeah.

Sasamaru: It's fine.

Araragi: Yeah.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

I feel a strange discomfort.

Sasamaru: What's wrong?

Looking closely at Araragi, she's uncomfortably squirming her legs.

Sasamaru: Huh?

The lower half of my body is seemingly warm.

I think it's kinda warm or maybe lukewarm, and somewhat wet.

Sasamaru: ...

When we were children, she got surprised by the sound of fireworks.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: Err...

Emergency, emergency.
Flood outbreak inside the room.
I repeat, flood outbreak inside the room.
All crew, evacuate to the shelter immediately.

Araragi: I...I'm sorr...

Araragi's face is unbelievably red.

With a miserable expression, as if wanting to run away, she's avoiding looking at my eyes.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: W...well...

Sasamaru: ...Sorry. Looks like this room has a roof leak.

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: Aah, it's right here. Look, the water's dripping from the ceiling.

Araragi: A...a roof leak...

Sasamaru: It's right there, look.

Due to the heavy rain, I don't feel that I'm inside a building.

It is as if the starry sky I saw with Araragi the other day was stretching on the ceiling.

It's making me feel this.

Sasamaru: So, what fell wasn't the rain but a star.

Araragi: Eh...

Sasamaru: It's not our fault, then. Of course a star will break through the ceiling.

Araragi: Sa...Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: There are that many stars above. It's not strange if one of them fell, right?

Araragi: Y...yeah.

Sasamaru: Right?

Araragi: T...thanks, Sasamaru-chan...

It appears the sky finally cheered up.

Perhaps because it was tired from rampaging, the thunder fell asleep.
The rain hasn't stopped completely, but it's now quite a light rain.

Holding our umbrellas, we hurry to the water mill.

We're thoroughly late.

Araragi: I-I'm sorry. It's my fault.

Sasamaru: No, we're late because of the rain.

Araragi: Sorry.

Sasamaru: By the way, Araragi. Why were you in my room?

Araragi: Ah...well...

Araragi: Everyone was out when I woke up, so, I tried to go outside in a hurry, but...my bed hair was surprisingly horrible.

Araragi: And when I headed to the washroom to at least fix my bed hair, the thunder came...

So, in panic, she rushed into the closest room.

Araragi: At first...I was just trembling in the corner of the room, but I later realized it was Sasamaru-chan's room.

Araragi: And...well, the clothes...were hanging there...

Sasamaru: So, you reflexively covered yourself with them.

Covering oneself with a futon while trembling. A common scene in manga.

Araragi: ...

Araragi: I thought I wouldn't be scared if I covered myself with your clothes.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Araragi: Ah! Well...the clothes! Sorry. I'll wash them before returning.

Araragi: They were brand-new, right? I'm sorry, I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: It's fine.

Araragi: ...

Araragi: Umm...about the...story just now.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

When I said that "I liked Araragi long ago"?

Araragi: I-it's nothing.

Araragi: W...well, I think you shouldn't talk much about that.

Sasamaru: But why?

So, it was boring.

Araragi: And you're asking "why." Sasamaru-chan, it's because you don't know why!

Sasamaru: At least I know it was a boring story.

Araragi: See, you don't know!

Hmmmm?

Araragi: T...to be "kind" to someone is very similar to "like" someone, right?

I'm puzzled by Araragi's words.

Araragi: I...I can't say it well, but it's hard to tell if "a person is being kind because they're kind" or "a person is being kind because they like the person," right?

Sasamaru: ...I don't quite get it. Can't you "be kind" because you "like"? Can't you simply "want to be kind"?

Araragi: But Sasamaru-chan, you're kind to everyone, aren't you?

Sasamaru: That's not...

Araragi: It's true.

Is that so?

Araragi: That's why you can't. You must not talk about that.

Araragi: Others might get the wrong idea.

I'm even more puzzled.
"I'm kind." This isn't true in the slightest.

I was always struggling to reach {\i1}there{\i0}.

And now, I'm still struggling.

Sasamaru: I don't understand well, but isn't that a talent?

Araragi: A talent?

As if she heard an unexpected reply, Araragi asks me.

Araragi: Err, is that the "talent to like everyone"?

Sasamaru: If you call a natural ability a talent, it's exactly as you say. Others can't easily mimic it, even if they wanted to.

Araragi: Is that the talent of {\i1}being able to be kind to everyone?{\i0}

This is an unpleasant phrasing.

Sasamaru: That's not it. It's the talent to "be able to stay kind." As a result, people who have this talent are seen as "kind to anyone."

Araragi: Hmmm...there's that point of view too.

Araragi is pondering.

Sasamaru: Araragi, a strong person like you has this talent.

I naturally think this.

Araragi: You say the most unexpected things.

Sasamaru: What's unexpected about it?

Araragi: I'm...weak. So...

Sasamaru: You're not weak.

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: Araragi, you're not weak.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: If the feeling of worrying about someone is kindness, it's by no means something simple. Because that's not something you can easily tell from appearances.

Because there are times when one must suppress one's feelings.

Sasamaru: It's difficult to persist with kindness. This means "strength."

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: I think the answer to the "hypocrisy" you asked before is there.

Araragi: Eh.

Araragi's big eyes open even further.

Araragi: Don't tell me...Sasamaru-chan, were you thinking about it this entire time?

Sasamaru: I didn't have a proper answer, but...

But I feel a response.

...Looking straight at Araragi in front of me.

Araragi: You were seriously thinking about it, weren't you?

Sasamaru: Because you helped me. I was very happy.

Araragi: Eh? Sasamaru-chan...you were?

Sasamaru: You created an opportunity for me. That's why I'm able to spend time with everyone now.

Araragi: W-what are you talking about? That's because you considered everyone's feelings.

Sasamaru: It's fine. You helped me anyway.

Sasamaru: I'm not imposing it, Araragi. Because you didn't ask for gratitude.

Sasamaru: But I'm grateful. I can say "thank you" as much as you want. This is how I feel.

Sasamaru: I think it's fine like this. From the start, there was no need to think hard about it.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: So, Araragi. Thanks.

I haven't properly said it.

I haven't told her my gratitude with "thanks."

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan.

And then, I realize something.

Sasamaru: I liked you since we were kids.

...The reason that I liked Araragi since we were kids.

...The reason I was attracted to Araragi.

Sasamaru: You were radiant.

She can be kind to anyone.

She can approach anyone with the same attitude.

Sasamaru: I'm sure I was {\i1}chasing the sun with my eyes.{\i0}

Because she...
is radiant.
All the time, like the sun.
That's why I made that ring.

When the class teacher said, "use something you like as the motif," the first thing that came to mind was the sun.

Sasamaru: For me, the "sun" is you, Araragi.

So radiant, enviable, and admired.

I simply wanted to approach it a little more.

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Then...
Araragi suddenly goes silent.

Sasamaru: ...What are you doing?

For some reason, she extends her hand toward me.

On her finger is the ring I gave her the other day.

Araragi: Nnnmmm! Nnnnmmm!

And I don't know why, but she's agitated.

With a deep-red face and eyes filled with tears, she's thrusting the ring as if it was a charm against evil.

Araragi: The compensation! The compensation!

Sasamaru: Ah, yeah. What about that compensation?

For some reason, she looks like an alert cat with bristled fur and going "hiss!"

Araragi: I have already received the compensation! I already received it!

Sasamaru: O-okay?

Araragi: Consent! Consent! And settling!

Sasamaru: Ah, yeah? Settling, right?

After listening to my reply, Araragi is greatly disappointed.

Araragi: ...Sasamaru-chan, you're a demon.

Sasamaru: ...?

Araragi: I chose the wrong person to discuss with.

Sasamaru: Aah...sorry for not being helpful.

Araragi: No, no, no. That's not it.

Araragi: Aaah...I'm stumped.

Sasamaru: ...?

Araragi: I'm really stumped.

I return to the water mill together with the disappointed Araragi.

Then, I think this along the road.

I wonder if that's really in the past tense.

"Did I really like her in the 'past'?"
I start thinking this.

//subchapter
A Big Mistake
October 14 (Wednesday)
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color

After that, I kept thinking about Araragi the whole time.

Harutsuge: Long ago, you liked Araragi-kun.

Harutsuge said that, but I wonder if it's really so.

...Is this feeling really in the "past"?

The feelings I felt that time...

Sasamaru: (No, no. Now I must focus on the project.)

I wave my head left and right and shake off my idle thoughts.

The Ayanashisai's exhibition day is steadily approaching.
We've been silently working on the project every day since then.

And the time for the finishing touches is approaching.
I can leave my thoughts about Araragi for after the Ayanashisai.

...I believed so.

?: WAAAAAAAAAAAHHH!!

The first materials brought over to the water mill are starting to run out.
I'm preparing to carry the supplement materials I left at school when...

...I'm passing in front of a classroom when I hear this voice close to a scream from inside of it.

?: This is bad! Really bad! Aah...what do I do!? What am I supposed to do!?

?: C-calm down! Let's calculate it one more time! I'm sure it'll be all right!

I get surprised and unintentionally stop my legs. Their voices reach my ears from beyond the sliding door.

I'm in front of the green team's classroom.

Sasamaru: (What happened? Did they mess up their project or something?)

Still, the situation isn't normal.

Green Team Male Student A: I did calculate again! I did it many times after realizing the mistake! But it's no use. I mistook the schedule right at the start!

After hearing these words, I shudder.

Green Team Male Student A: No matter how hard we work, we won't finish it!

...What a thing.

They won't be in time for the Ayanashisai.
A basic mistake.

Green Team Male Student A: I'm sorry...it's all my fault. I proposed it, and yet...ah, and everyone was working so hard. I'm sorry! I'm very sorry!

Green Team Female Student A: I-It's okay! If we start working today, we might finish it...right? We'll work even harder now!

Sasamaru: ...

I want to stop, but I endure it and keep walking.

It's the same as when the yellow team's project broke.
I don't think Aone's reproach from that time was wrong.

For me to try to help them is nothing more than arrogance.
That is their responsibility; it's a matter they must resolve themselves.

Right now, their pride as a student from this school is being tested.

In the first place, we too don't have time to spare.
What I must think about is how to create a project our red team can approve and, most importantly, how to finish it on time.

This is my responsibility.

Sasamaru: (Our red team's project...is going well, isn't it?)

Before starting, I shared it with Hiyo and did a complete check.
It's all right.

Although, we can't get careless.

This is a cold way of speaking, but I must use the green team as an example of what not to do and focus.

What we must face in order to complete our project...

These are the "production" and the "exhibition."

Since this is a project, the "production" is needless to point out.

The problem is the "exhibition."

Our red team project won't be completed as a project if we don't "exhibit" it.

For this purpose, there are two ways for this.

One is to perform the "production" and "exhibition" at the same time.
The other one is to perform the "exhibition" after the "production."

The "same time" of the former is the method of, for example, in a group of four like ours, two create the project while two exhibit the finished project one by one.

The latter is for the four of us to create the project simultaneously and, as soon as it's finished, perform the exhibition in one go with the four of us.

The one we chose was the latter.

Our reason is that, since it is a project, we don't want others to see it until the last moment.
We were actually concerned about this, but...

...the number one reason is that our project has the restriction of "can only be placed in a very specific place."

In short, we are creating our project as "something that must be placed there."

It's not indoors, but outdoors. Our concern was to place it under the wind and rain too early.

Since we can't let go of the requirement of "the place must be outdoors," it's unavoidable that the project becomes damaged somewhat.
Still, we want everyone to see it as undamaged as possible.

This is my conscience and my true feelings as the creator. So, our only choice was the latter.

As a result, we'll start the "exhibition" at the last possible moment.

Because a creator will try to drag on the "creation" as much as possible.
But leaving this truth with a tint of joke aside...

Our project demands quality, of course. But first is the "numbers."

This project, which requires a considerable "number," also requires a considerable production time.

So, we'll use all the time we have and complete the numbers. And then, start the exhibition.

Yesterday was the last "production" day according to the schedule I drew up at the start.

//text on screen
Ayanashisai

Sasamaru: (...We somehow made it.)

After looking at our project piled up at the water mill, I'm absorbed in deep emotion.

It's all thanks to everyone.

Thanks to everyone's hard work, our project advanced exactly as I scheduled at the start. We gathered the "necessary" numbers I had calculated.

If we start the exhibition now, there's more than enough time until the Ayanashisai.

The exhibition work is by no means an easy one, but our "project" will finally be completed when we finish this.

Sasamaru: (I'm quite the worrier, too.)

I do an awkward smile at myself.

Before going to the school, I came here to do a final check before starting the "exhibition."

I'm thinking of recounting to see if the numbers match.

I already counted it several times. There's no need to confirm it now, but...

Sasamaru: (...All right.)

I confirm the numbers—the same as the scheduled ones—feel relieved and sit on the chair.

While imagining the exhibition place, I think about the work that will start today and...

...the moment I realize {\i1}that,{\i0} I reflexively stand up from the chair.

Sasamaru: Ah.

I desperately work my mind.

The fierce impatience is making my head work several times faster than usual.
But it's hazy and unstable like a revolving lantern, the complete opposite of a frozen situation.

It's not something to count with the fingers. I count the numbers like climbing a staircase while skipping one step.
But the more I count, the more my mind wavers.

The faster I arrive at the deeper levels, the more the answer surprises me.

Sasamaru: It's not enough.

I have recounted over and over. The truth that finally overflows from my mouth freezes my mind.

Sasamaru: Ah...ah...

{\i1}No matter how many times I recount, it's still not enough!{\i0}

Sasamaru: How was it?

Hiyo: It's as you said, honey. I put it together in these papers just in case.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Before starting the project, I split with Hiyo and checked the exhibition place.

Our exhibition place isn't only one. It'll finally become a single project after combining several places.

At that time, Hiyo neatly summarized it in the papers. There were no mistakes, but...

...my part was {\i1}lacking in several places.{\i0}

Sasamaru: No way.

Why?

Why has no one noticed this? There were four of us. Why?

Sasamaru: (Stop. Don't think that.)

Everyone believed in me.
They believed in me.

That's why everyone did it as I requested.
{\i1}No one doubted it because I said it would be on time.{\i0}

I was naive.

Sasamaru: (This is my mistake!)

I realize I'm staggering due to the sound of the chair falling.

What do I do?
Our remaining time is limited.
If we start an appended work now, it won't be on time.

Even if we finish the production, we won't have time for the exhibition.

Sasamaru: (No, maybe we can? Maybe we can finish it if we work the whole time without sleeping?)

Do not rely on wishful thinking.
You make these foolish mistakes because you have these optimistic ideas.

Sasamaru: (Do we submit the project half-completed? We've worked this much. I'm sure the student council will recognize our efforts and...)

Are you an idiot!?
Why are you being fainthearted for?
To begin with, was your objective simply "to have them recognize our efforts"?

Also, an incomplete project can't be called a project.

Do you plan on submitting such a thing as "our red team's project"?

Sasamaru: Dammit!!

This is no time to shout.
This is no time to get angry at my own worthlessness.

Think.
Think.
If this keeps up, everyone's work will be for naught.

I'll have betrayed everyone who believed in me.

Think.
Think desperately.
Think until you're worn out.

What must I do to complete the project on time?

Harutsuge: Huh? What happened to Sasamaru-kun?

Hiyo: He said he will check the work so far.

Harutsuge: Ha ha. Sasamaru-kun sure is a worrier.

Hiyo: He's the one who suggested. He must feel responsible for it.

Harutsuge: Got it. Hiyo-kun, you took his feelings into consideration and didn't go with him.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: You may call me an esper, all right?

Hiyo: If you see through me and don't say anything, I'll even call you president.

Araragi: But what should we do? The school chime will ring soon.

Harutsuge: Well, when it rings, I'll work something out and cover it up.

Hiyo: Oh my, how kind.

Harutsuge: ...We were able to come here thanks to his earnest efforts. It's okay if he wants to carefully check it before the finishing touches.

Onitake-sensei: Good morning, everyone.

Araragi: Good morning, teacher.

Harutsuge: Teacher, it's about Sasamaru-kun. He's busy dealing with his enlarged sexual desires and will come to school a bit late. May I ask you to forgive this as an indiscretion of youth?

Hiyo: ...

After all's said and done, I must do it.

There are no tricks in creating a work.

The only way is to face it directly and pour the ideas and techniques with all my strength.

Sasamaru: (Shit! Shit! Shit!)

My impatient feelings disorder my hands, producing a mistake.

I take time to repair it and, as a result, there is a vicious cycle of wasting more and more time.

Sasamaru: (Dammit!)

I simply realize my own worthlessness.

Harutsuge: Isn't Sasamaru-kun a bit too late?

Harutsuge: ...Oops, those two aren't here. And the chime has just rung.

Harutsuge: Oh boy. Sasamaru-kun sure is a lucky guy.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hmm? What's up, Hiyo-kun?

Hiyo: ...It appears Araragi-san was faster.

Harutsuge: ...? That's no reason to come back here.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun?

Hiyo: I have no chance of winning...when Araragi-san gets serious.

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun.

...I tell everything to Araragi, who just arrived.

And also, I apologize.

It's all my fault.
My mistake.

Araragi isn't criticizing me.

After grasping the situation, she immediately takes the tools and starts working.

Sasamaru: Go back to the classroom, Araragi. I'll advance it a little in the meantime.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: ...I know this isn't a problem that will solve itself because I'm working while skipping classes. But...

Araragi: ...

Araragi is working in silence.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: ...

Simply in silence.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: ...

Really in silence, the whole time.

She's creating it beside me this whole time.

There's no need for words.

"No matter how difficult that day is, the morning will always come."
People often say this, but...

...there are times when you don't want the morning to come.

But, cruelly, the morning comes when the fixed time arrives.

It goes to its work, the sky, precisely on time.

After that, I tell everyone about the situation.

We eagerly work hard until the very end.

But......

...in the end, we are disqualified from the Ayanashisai.

The morning of the Ayanashisai, Waka-san comes to us and asks...

Waka: Is this a completed project?

...this.

I guess it's a rule to ask this every year.

Summing up, it's a self-assessment for the submitting party.

If we say, "it's completed," then that's it.

Only the creator knows if the project is completed or not, and on what basis it is completed.

{\i1}That's why...{\i0}

That's why I can't say, "it's complete."

I can't.

For the life of me, I can't say it.

Waka: ...Very well. Then, I cannot accept this as the red team's project.

I can't oppose these words.

This is something we know better than anyone.

Araragi: Good work, Sasamaru-chan.

When I return to the classroom, Araragi welcomes me.

Hiyo and Harutsuge are also here.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Sasamaru: Everyone, I'm sorry.

Araragi: Good work.

Araragi repeats those words.

Araragi: I'm glad you could say it.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: You gave your best.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry. It's my fault.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, don't get it wrong.

Araragi: No one is criticizing you.

Sasamaru: ...Yeah.

That's right. They won't criticize me.

Just like Araragi...
they're all very kind.

Just like that day when they accepted me, the fake "bamboo."

Araragi: I said, don't get it wrong.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

What is reflected in my eyes when I raise my face is Araragi's straightforward eyes.

Araragi: That's the "red team" project. You weren't the only one who didn't make it in time, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: But if I had correctly...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you're not the only one frustrated.

I swallow my complaints—about to come out—after her strong voice tone.

Araragi: Everyone worked hard, and everyone feels frustrated.

Araragi: Don't be arrogant that {\i1}you're the only one.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: That's why no one's criticizing you. We're not being "considerate."

Araragi: It was you, Sasamaru-chan, who made everyone believe this is "everyone's project," wasn't it?

Everyone.
Everyone's project.

Sasamaru: But it's my fault that everyone's project is...

Araragi: It's not your {\i1}fault{\i0}. It's {\i1}thanks{\i0} to you that this became everyone's project.

Sasamaru: Teacher.

Sasamaru: I have a proposal.

Araragi: It's because you raised your hand that day, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Good morning!

Sasamaru: You may eat, don't be shy.

Sasamaru: Let's finish the "red team's" project together!!

The three: "Yes!" "Right!" "Right!"

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you gathered all of us.

Araragi: That's why {\i1}we all became the red team.{\i0} So, that's {\i1}the red team's project.{\i0}

Araragi: We could create the "Four Noble Ones' project."

Sasamaru: ...

At that time...

...when Araragi found out about my mistake...

...she might have realized we wouldn't be on time.

Still, she kept me company because of her personality. She can't keep doing nothing, even if it won't be on time.

She might have carried half of my luggage.

At that day, at that time...in the same way she lightened my luggage when I was arbitrarily misunderstanding.

Araragi: So, let us frustrate together.

Araragi: Let everyone feel responsible too.

Araragi: If you regard us as friends...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you're the one who taught us this, right?

Sasamaru: ...

...Wrong.

Sasamaru: You're...wrong.

The ones who taught me that were...

Sasamaru: You taught me! It was you all who taught me this!

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. That hand you're clasping. Open it.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Araragi: That fist you're clenching in frustration. Open it.

Araragi overlaps her hand with my open palm.

Next, Harutsuge overlaps hers.

And lastly, Hiyo overlaps hers.

Araragi: Hey, in that hand...is what you wanted in it?

Sasamaru: Yeah!

What a...
what a thing, dammit.

Sasamaru: It was here!

It was right here.

I was grasping it the whole time.

I simply didn't realize it. The answer was here the entire time!

Inside this palm.

On this day, we make a "regret party."

Araragi: Well then, to our failure...

......Cheers!!

A satisfying glass sound echoes.

Pleasantly, a glassware sound echoes inside the room.

Harutsuge: In the end, the blue team won this year, too.

Hiyo: Hehe. We should simply win next year.

Harutsuge: That's Hiyo-kun for you, very bold.

Hiyo: Oh my. We would have won if our project were completed.

Hiyo: We have with us he, who proposed that idea. I'm sure the laurel of victory will shine upon our class next year.

Harutsuge: Yeah, that's right. Next year, let's bring home the pennant engraved with "The Noble Yumemidori Academy."

Hiyo: First, it's not a pennant. And there's no school name engraved in a competition inside the school itself.

Harutsuge: I'm glad you jabbed at both points. I was wondering what to do if you jabbed at only one.

Hiyo: Ah, honey. You're already drinking. Let me fill your glass.

Harutsuge: And ignoring me the next moment...Hiyo is really a master of leaving me half-dead.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, you're drooling, drooling.

Harutsuge: Hah, it's fine...treat me more coldly. That will warm me up.

Sasamaru: The line is so subtle that I don't know if she's drunk or sober.

Harutsuge: I'm sober!

Araragi: She bluntly said it.

Sasamaru: Ah, yeah. I'm relieved Harutsuge is Harutsuge even when drunk.

Harutsuge: Look here, Sasamaru-kun. You might insult me as a woman of boobs only, but...

Sasamaru: Wait, I never said that. Not a single time.

Harutsuge: Listen here. Big or not, they're all good. Do not mistake this point.

Sasamaru: You already said that. Stop it already.

Aah, I can laugh it off.
I can do this because everyone is here.

The frustration didn't disappear, but...
The guilty conscience didn't disappear, but...

...even so, if I have friends with whom to share the feelings of "disappointment"...

...I can laugh off the feelings of disappointment.

The fruit called "everyone."

If there's someone to bite this fruit and appreciate the refreshing juice overflowing from it...

...there's also someone to secretly frown at the bitterness mixed in its core.

Hiyo: Araragi-san.

It is some time after the "regret party" started, when the banquet is at full height.

Hiyo approaches Araragi.

Araragi: What is it, Hiyo-chan?

Hiyo: May I ask you to do one more toast with me?

Araragi: Eh?

Araragi is perplexed by the sudden request, but...

Araragi: O-okay.

As instructed, she clinks glasses with Hiyo.

A satisfying sound echoes in the surroundings.

Hiyo: I won't lose, you hear?

Araragi: Eh?

Hiyo: I won't lose.

Hiyo looks straight into Araragi's eyes and smiles.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan?

Hiyo: What I wanted to say was just that.

Hiyo turns back, still with a smile.

Araragi: Y...you sure?

This "you sure"...

...are the words Araragi always wanted to say but never could.

Hiyo: From the start, it wasn't something to ask me for permission.

Hiyo answers this to the voice that arrives at her back.

Hiyo: I wonder if what you needed was permission to your own self.

Araragi: ...

Hiyo: Hehe. I'm very strong, you hear? Araragi-san.

After saying this, Hiyo leaves the place.

Araragi: ...

Alone in the room, Araragi...

...stares at the glass for one moment...

...and eventually grasps it tightly.

After leaving, the one who is on Hiyo's path is Harutsuge.

She's leaning on a pillar.

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: ...

There are no words to exchange.

However, when Hiyo is about to pass in front of her, Harutsuge eventually opens her mouth.

Harutsuge: You're an idiot.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: You're really an idiot.

Even from behind, she knows Hiyo is crying.

She wonders why she is so wholehearted like this...

...and also why she's such a good girl.

Hiyo: ...I...I...

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Hiyo: If he...is happy...that's enough for...

Harutsuge: ...As I thought.

Harutsuge: You're an idiot.

From the bottom of her heart,
Harutsuge feels that this Hiyo is lovely.

Slightly drunk, everyone is enjoying the regret party as they please.

As for me...

I still can't believe this moment.
But it's here right in front of me.

In order to confirm it, I look at my hand.

I stare at my open palm.

The sensation remaining there warms my chest...
and makes it hotter.

Sasamaru: ...

As to not let this heat escape, I clasp my fist once more.

Sasamaru: (It's all right now.)

I won't mistake anymore.
They taught me what's important.

Sasamaru: (That's right. I haven't really thanked them yet.)

After realizing this, I search for Araragi.

I should say "thanks" to everyone.

"But that's a bit different from an expression of gratitude."
They might tell me this.

In the same way I said it to Harutsuge, who was immersed in the work that day and saying, "I can't forgive myself."

But I must thank them for making me realize this.

They taught me about the warmth in this palm.

To Araragi.

Araragi: ...

Alone in the hallway, Araragi is looking at the night sky.

With the clasped fist on her chest.

Sasamaru: ...Thanks.

I approach her while saying this. Araragi turns around to me.

Araragi: Ah, Sasamaru-chan...about what?

I wonder if...
...the clasped fist on her chest is proof she's feeling the same as me.

Sasamaru: In the classroom...when I returned after being unable to say, "it's completed," to Waka-san.

Araragi: I did nothing worthy of receiving thanks, okay?

Sasamaru: That might be so, but let me say it.

I don't know how she's feeling the thing inside the palm of her hand, but...

Sasamaru: I think I was able to take one step forward.

Still, I must tell her this.
Together with the feelings of gratitude.

Sasamaru: I might have been in the same place all this time.

All this time in the same place, without thinking about taking another step forward.

I was earnestly trying to preserve this place...
running in the same place with my legs suspended all this time.

Eventually being unable to be in that place, I was desperate to reach it.

That was the only thing I could see.

I think I finally realize the meaning of everything I've been doing after arriving at this school.

...Really, what have I been doing?

Araragi: ...I'm sorry, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Eh?

But Araragi apologizes.

I don't understand the meaning of this apology.

Araragi: I was distancing myself from you, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: ...Huh?

Araragi: It's about when you had just arrived at this school, Sasamaru-chan. So, I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: What are you talking about?

...At this late.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: I'll give this back.

What Araragi hands over to me is the other day's...

Sasamaru: This is the...

What's on top of her palm is what she called "compensation."

Araragi: That's what I mean.

Sasamaru: What you mean?

Araragi: What I mean.

To give back the "compensation."

She was treasuring it very much.

The fact of returning this "compensation."

Araragi: I'm thinking of taking "one step" forward, too.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: I resolved myself, so, this is a precaution, Sasamaru-chan.

"Sasamaru is thickheaded."
I've always been called this.
This is certainly an undeniable fact.

Araragi: I'm always in love, but...

Araragi: ...this time, I want a love {\i1}facing{\i0} you, Sasamaru-chan.

But even me...
will notice if she says it straight to my face.

There's no way I won't notice the meaning of her "compensation" and the true meaning of its return.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Araragi: May I...take that as your reply, Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: No. It's because I made you say it.

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: I...was aware of my feelings, but didn't know it was love. And Araragi, I made you say it.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: I...like you, Araragi.

Sasamaru: I finally understand what this feeling is. This whole time, it was fuzzy and unclear, but...I finally understand.

Sasamaru: I like you, Araragi.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: ...I like you. Araragi.

I won't mistake anymore.

I won't mistake my feelings.

...I knew I wouldn't be chosen.

Despite this, why...

Why am I...

Hiyo: ...uh...ah...

Hiyo: eeh...a...uh...! a...

Why are the tears overflowing?

I'm no match for her.

I knew I had no right to be beside him, but...

...why won't the tears stop?

Sasamaru: ...You sure?

After asking this, she quickly nods.

Our distance shortens.

But somehow, we still can't take another step forward.

So, in order to make up for this distance...

...our lips touch each other.

One step.
It is the proof we got one step closer.
A small but definite step.

After the touching parts distanced from each other, a moment of distress.

I wonder how many times does this make since the first time our lips touched each other.

But we still can't quite take the next step forward.

Our feelings are stark naked.

We know each other's feelings of wanting each other, but I wonder if wanting each other's bodies will be beneficial for both of us.
With this feeling that can be taken as cowardice, we both are unable to give another step forward.

But we are grown-ups.

It is the form without any falsehood of the lovers Yumeno Araragi and Suu Sasamaru.

But I finally start noticing...
that she has "resolved" herself.

Every time our lips touch each other like this, she's always "resolved" to accept when I try to make the "next step."

Which means I am "making her wait."

Which means I'm "teasing" the girl who is earnestly mustering her courage with her small body.

Meaning, I am the worst.

Which means I'm hiding my own cowardice by lining up the complaint of "beneficial for both of us."

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Araragi waves her head sideways at my abrupt apology.
This is proof she understands the meaning of my words.

That's why today I decide to take one more step forward.

Sasamaru: May I...take off your clothes?

Araragi: Yeah...

The reply comes back immediately.

Araragi: I had...resolved myself. For me, that toast was a toast of resolve.

I don't know the meaning of this "toast," but...
I'm sure it doesn't change the fact that I made her wait.

That's why I place my hand on her clothes.

One by one, carefully.
Although, this being my first time doing this, I can't take it off well. I might be making Araragi impatient.

Still, she isn't moving one muscle while I'm taking off her clothes with my unsteady movements.

I take off the uniform that's actually a dress.

Sasamaru: Oh...

Her body lines have started turning into dew.

I unconsciously raise my voice because I'm surprised at her large breasts, unimaginable from her body shape.

Araragi: ...?

Araragi's face is deep red.

She makes a puzzled face at my voice.

Sasamaru: Well, I heard about it, but...your breasts are really big.

I remember Harutsuge saying that "Araragi-kun looks extremely slim in clothes."

Araragi: ...You don't...like it?

Sasamaru: Sorry, sorry. I was just a little surprised.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: I don't dislike it.

Araragi: ...I'm glad.

Araragi seems relieved from the bottom of her heart.

Sasamaru: Sorry for not being clear.

Araragi: No, that's not what I meant. Harutsuge-chan said this to me once.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge did?

Araragi: Yes. According to Harutsuge-chan...

Harutsuge: All right, Araragi-kun. Listen very well.

Araragi: Why that costume, Harutsuge-chan?

Harutsuge: I am not Harutsuge-chan. Call me professor. In a loud voice.

Araragi: Professor!

Harutsuge: Good!

Araragi: Yessir!

Harutsuge: Well then, I shall teach you. Today's topic is "The Revised Fermat Triangle Theorem Regarding Body Size and Breasts' Fat."

Araragi: Wh...what?

Harutsuge: Frankly speaking, the topic itself has no meaning.

Araragi: I knew that, professor!

Harutsuge: That's my disciple. Good!

Araragi: Yessir!

Harutsuge: Therefore, I think the person you'll offer your first time to will be surprised.

Araragi: W-what's that out of nowhere?

Harutsuge: It's understandable. He stripped the person he thought was a loli but was actually a boing-boing. He will be bewildered: "What is this unpredictability about? I don't know if I won or lost."

Araragi: H-h-h-hey.

Harutsuge: I shall now point out the problem!

Araragi: Y-yessir.

Harutsuge: In case the other party is a hardcore lolicon, this bewilderment is a matter of life-or-death directly connected to the termination of your romantic relationship.

Harutsuge: For the girl, it's the body offering that has finally arrived. It's the bait called purity. "All right, I got a bite!" Or so you think, before noticing the tears in his eyes.

Araragi: I'm sorry. Err, you're too blunt.

Harutsuge: What will you do if Swaswamahru-kun is a hardcore lolicon?

Araragi: Umm, I'm grateful you're being considerate by hiding his name, but, frankly speaking, you're not.

Harutsuge: What will you do!?

Araragi: Err, well...that would...trouble me.

Harutsuge: Right? But what if the other party thinks "she's a loli who I can enjoy the breasts"? To yield to the breasts' temptation is in the male nature. You gotta accept it. What if the other party thinks about "killing two birds with one stone"?

Araragi: Summing up, he's looking at me, right?

Harutsuge: In this case, your partner is a pervert.

Araragi: Umm, I'm sorry. Where are you going with this conversation?

Araragi: ...She said.

Sasamaru: Sorry. I have no clue about that story's conclusion, but, Araragi. What did you gain from it?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, are you a hardcore lolicon? Or are you a pervert?

Sasamaru: Why only those two choices? Isn't there a more decent one?

Araragi: This is very important!

Sasamaru: Err...

HARUTSUGEEEEEE!!

I hold down the urge of wanting to scream her name and think.

Somehow, Araragi appears really bewildered. I want to remove this trivial anxiety of hers.

Sasamaru: I...

Although, I can't say anything clever.

So, I convey my honest feelings.

Sasamaru: If it's you "Araragi," either is fine.

Araragi: ...Sure...

Perhaps because she's relieved, Araragi happily smiles.

Sasamaru: Are you a bit relieved?

Araragi: Yeah. Sorry for asking something embarrassing.

Sasamaru: No, it's fine. I think it's Harutsuge who must apologize.

I smoothly say this.

Sasamaru: ...Ready?

Again, I place my hand on Araragi's clothes and ask.

Araragi: Yeah. Sasamaru-chan, do as you want.

I roll up her bra.

//Araragi H-scene start

Her exposed breasts can only be called surprising.
Filled with two plump swells.

Sasamaru: (...Typical of Araragi.)

Yes, it's surprising judging from her physique, but convincing judging from her broad-mindedness.

Araragi, who never disorders her smile.
Without getting angry when she should, her priority is to calm down others.

I wonder if these plump breasts represent her.

Araragi: It's...embarrassing if you keep staring.

"Like a holy mother."
I sometimes think this, but after seeing her face as such, I truly feel that "Araragi is a girl."

She is my first love, unbearably cute.

I make her sit on the tatami and touch her breasts.

Araragi: ...

Trembling with a startle, she really is a girl.

A full-fledged girl, not resisting at all and entrusting her body to me.

Araragi: Ah!

I scoop her breasts with the edge of my palm.
I check their softness.

How soft.

This is exactly how I pictured "a girl's breasts" inside my head.

I feel aroused by this sensation that I feel for the first time.

Araragi: Ah!

I extend my hand to the nipples, sitting at the center of both spheres like a blushed cheek.

Holding between my fingertips, they are soft and yet stiff.

The fact that they are pregnant with contradicting factors is indeed proof of a girl.

Araragi: Ah...Sasamaru-cha...

I play with her nipples, rolling them with my fingertips and then between them.

Araragi's reaction to this act combines with the enrapturing scent always drifting from her, increasing my arousal even more.

Then, I finally touch the clothes covering below her abdomen.

Araragi: Mnn!

Araragi reflexively averts her eyes.

This reaction is again cute. I stare at the place now uncovered.

Araragi: It's...it's...embarrassing.

Sasamaru: Can't I look?

Araragi: If it's you, Sasamaru-chan...okay.

Embarrassment, and the joy of touching each other.

These conflicting feelings truly make a girl even more of a girl in this situation.

And the man has both joy and lewdness in his welling-up feelings.

Wanting to touch on a girl's secret parts, which he doesn't have.

Araragi: Aah!

As if being pushed by the feelings of the girl, allowing despite being bewildered from the touching.

Araragi: Mn...mmnn.

The secretly closed place leaves a mysterious sensation on my fingertips.

It is soft but somewhat warm.

Araragi: ...Mmnn...mmmnnn!

The more I touch, and the more I trace the slit with my fingers, as if pushing aside the petals, the more moistened it becomes.

Araragi: Wai...aah...

It is indeed mysterious.

And exactly because it is mysterious, my hands do not stop, wanting to know the reason of the mystery.

Araragi: W-wai...ah...mmnn!

Despite raising an excited voice, Araragi does not change her posture.

Taking advantage of these feelings, my finger, as if being enveloped, starts the penetration.

Araragi: Nnnmmmgh!

Sinking in a little.
This time it's me who is bewildered at this sensation of wrenching open.

Sasamaru: Did it hurt?

Araragi: No...I'm fine.

Despite it being her first time, she is allowing even this.

Her feelings touch me, together with this blessing as a man—which is the act of her devoting her body to me.

But, sometimes...

Araragi: Hah...

...Araragi shows a peculiar expression.

For a while now, I'm catching glimpses of such expressions a little bit.

Bewilderment.
Although it is no doubt an inevitable bewilderment due to the situation, it is of a different kind.

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: What's the matter?

Araragi: N-no, sorry. It's my first time. I'm a bit confused...

Sasamaru: ...Okay.

Though, I feel a different behavior.
Yes, there's nothing strange in making a face different from usual if it is the first time.

Actually, I too am considerably confused.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: Let me do it.

Sasamaru: Eh? "Do," you mean...

Araragi: I can't forgive myself...if it's just you doing to me.

Sasamaru: A-Araragi!?

A boldness unthinkable for Araragi.

She puts her hand on my belt, lowers my trousers...

...and faces the swelling expanded to its limits.

Araragi: Wow...

Sasamaru: Wha, wait. Why are you so skilled?

Araragi: Eh? Well, I often helped my younger brother put on clothes, so...

Ah, I remembered. Araragi has a big family.
Many brothers, older and younger ones.

She is very caring. She must have always taken care of her younger siblings.
Wait, more importantly...

Sasamaru: W-what do you plan on...

Araragi: I too can do it.

Why does she have to say "can do it☆" with a cute voice?

Sasamaru: Araragi, you don't have to if it's too difficult.

It's because I took advantage of her warmth. I regret being impatient earlier.

Araragi: It's not difficult.

Sasamaru: But...this is your first time, right? Araragi?

Araragi quickly nods.

Still, she...

Araragi: It's not difficult.

...says this.

Araragi: To do this for you, Sasamaru-chan...is not difficult.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi, who really is with an expression of worrying too much...

Sasamaru: Whoa.

She sticks out her tongue and starts licking the glans.

Araragi: I'll work hard. I'll do my best.

Sasamaru: Arara...gi...

Araragi: Mmnn...mmmnn...

Licking, she is eagerly striving to make me feel good.

Sasamaru: Whoa!

I react to the unfamiliar stimulus.

Araragi: ...

Looking at my reaction, Araragi starts sliding her tongue even more.

This is really not like Araragi.

Sure, she is a girl who has enough capacity to act at the "it's now!" times, but is this an "it's now!" time?

Sasamaru: A...Araragi, don't force yourself.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: A-Araragi?

Araragi: I must work hard...

Sasamaru: Eh?

I wonder if this is her "woman" face, which I don't see normally.

Araragi: ...That's right!

And Araragi, as if she had remembered something...

Araragi: "Hehehehehe."

Sasamaru: No, wait, Araragi-san!?

Araragi: "Happy with a loli on you? You pervert."

Sasamaru: Why are you changing your character!? Are you a closet pervert!?

Araragi: Eh? But she said boys like this.

Sasamaru: Wait, wait. I know who told you that. It was Harutsuge, wasn't it?

Araragi: Eh...

Sasamaru: And why the surprised face? I'm sure 10 out of 10 people would say the same.

Then, Araragi speaks.

Harutsuge: Normally a loli character. But a boing-boing once the clothes are off. And next, I'll grant you a killer move to make the best of this gap.

Sasamaru: No, enough. I got it already.

What's 'killer move' about?
You trying to kill me?
With that?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan has always been my best friend.

Sasamaru: Yeah, I know.

Araragi: And that's why...

Sasamaru: No, that has nothing to do with this.

As soon as she says this...
again, Araragi, after firmly putting my dick between her breasts, starts stroking it with calm movements.

And somehow tries to entwine her tongue while matching with these movements.

Every time the glans touches the tip of her tongue due to the cleavage's friction, it simply bumps against it, but...
she is earnest.

Together with joy, it honestly feels good.

Araragi: "Hey, pervert. It's between the breasts. Between them. Say you're happy!"

Sasamaru: ...

I'm turned off.

Araragi: H-huh? It's shrinking!?

Sasamaru: Sorry, Araragi. Please forget everything Harutsuge taught you.

Araragi: B-but she said boys like when being told that!

Sasamaru: (Damn antenna.)

Araragi: G-get bigger! Haaaaa!

Now Araragi has started a strange chant.

Araragi: Haaaa! Get bigger, get bigger!

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Get biggeeer.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Ah! It got bigger!

...Well, I'm too am at fault for getting bigger at her cute behavior.
We both shouldn't go too far.

Araragi: All right. Now I'll do it.

Sasamaru: You're really...not forcing?

But I want to confirm this.

For me, the behavior Araragi is displaying for a while now feels very distant from the usual her.

Araragi: But I must do my best.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi again shows the same expression she did earlier.

Araragi: I must do my best.

These words feel like they are toward herself.

Araragi is rubbing my swelling many, many times.

And then...

...we face each other.

Sasamaru: Araragi...

Araragi: ...Yea. Sasamaru-chan...

I'm sure I'm making the same expression as her.

And she too, like a reflection in the mirror, must be with the same expression as I.

This fact relaxes us both, shortening our distance.

Sasamaru: ...You okay?

Araragi: Yea.

For some reason, sometimes mixed in it...
glimpses of an expression of confusion.

Finally, my glans touches her faint slit.

Araragi: Ah!

I'm sure she is startled from the impatience of receiving it inside her body for the first time.

So, I lower my hips while keeping in mind to be slowly, very slowly.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: ...Araragi?

Araragi: Eh?

Araragi: H...huh? Huh?

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: H-how strange...huh?

One after another, tears overflowing endlessly.

Something burst.
This is how it feels to me.

As if something that had been pilling up for a long, long time had finally crumbled down.

This piling up is innocent.
Innocent, as if {\i1}not thinking anything.{\i0}

Kept being innocent in order to deceive oneself.
This is how it feels to me.

And it crumbled down.
That's why the tears overflow.

Feelings contrary to her smile overflow from inside.

Araragi: Sorr...I'm fine...you may continue.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. Let's continue.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Sasamaru-cha...

Sasamaru: I don't...

Sasamaru: I don't want to if it's going to make you cry.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: Sorry. And you have finally mustered your courage.

Araragi: Why are you...apologizing, Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: Because I made you cry.

Araragi: It's not your fault.

Sasamaru: It doesn't matter whose fault it is.

Sasamaru: I made the woman I like cry.

So, Sasamaru. Let's put her to bed for today.

Aah, it's already this late.
I'll carry her to the bedroom.

And I must reflect.
Think about this alone.

About the meaning of these tears.

Sasamaru: Let's go, Araragi.

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: Put back your clothes. Let's stop for today and return to the bedroom.

Araragi: B-but why?

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan!

Sasamaru: ...Well, let's go.

//Araragi H-scene end

Araragi: Wait!

I try to stand up. Araragi gets up and grabs my shirt.

Araragi: Please...wait.

Sasamaru: Araragi...

Araragi: I'm sorry...I'm sorry!

Araragi is overflowing with tears.
You don't have to...

Sasamaru: Sorry. I was making you impatient.

Araragi: No, it's not that. Sasamaru-chan, you're not wrong. You're not wrong.

Araragi: I'm the wrong one!

Sasamaru: ...Don't blame yourself. I'm okay when you're okay. I'll be waiting.

Araragi: No, it's not that.

Araragi waves her head.
She keeps waving.

Araragi: Sasamaru...chan.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: Please...please, notice her feelings!

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: I'm a coward. A hypocrite. I can't...it's too difficult for me.

Sasamaru: ...

"Difficult."

Repeated three times, this word has now resurfaced.

Sasamaru: Perhaps...was I the only one who thought that our feelings were communicating with each other?

The moment I speak these words, I feel as if my entrails were burning.

Araragi: No! Sasamaru-chan, I love you! My number one has always been you, Sasamaru-chan!

Sasamaru: ...

Then...
Then why...

Araragi: I had resolved. I had...resolved myself, but...

Araragi: But my "resolve" is...not to overcome her tears!

...Her?

Araragi: I like you...I like you. I love you! I've always loved you. Always, always, since when we were little. Sasamaru-chan, I love you more than anyone, anyone!

Araragi: But I've been watching since we were little. Watching her, who was always beside you.

Araragi: My...my dear friend...another very important friend...

Does she mean...

Araragi: Is my...is my "love"...stronger than even hers?

Is she talking about...Hiyo?

Araragi: Thi...this is how I am. I can't forgive myself unless I know this.

Araragi: How arrogant...and unfair!

Araragi: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Sasamaru-chan. Sorry for being like this. You chose me...you chose someone like me, but...I'm sorry...

Araragi: I like you more than anyone, Sasamaru-chan. But I'm not content until I know that {\i1}I like you more than anyone.{\i0}

Araragi: Otherwise...if I don't know this...if I'm not self-aware of this, I'll be ashamed to see her.

Araragi: I don't care if she hates me. But I'll be ashamed to see her.

She's crumbling down.

Araragi: I'm sorry...sorry for being a hypocritical woman.

Araragi is crumbling down.

Araragi: But...this is me. {\i1}If I don't look at this, if I don't think about this,{\i0} I can be yours, Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi: But...I'm turning my eyes away. I can't be together with you, Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi: This isn't me. This isn't me. It's rude to you, Sasamaru-chan!

Sasamaru: ...

I don't know what to do.

I can only embrace her until she stops crying.

The whole time, until she stops crying.

I took Araragi to the bedroom and put her to sleep before going outside.

I want to cool down my head.
I want to collect myself.

Sasamaru: ...

...The meaning of the words she told me.

Those tears...as if the feelings she was holding back exploded.

"Please, notice her feelings."

I look at my palm.

Holding my palm to the moon, I ask myself.

Is what you wanted...inside this hand?

...

It was...I think.

I feel like I'm forgetting something important.

No, that's not it.
I'm not "forgetting."

I wonder if I'm simply not realizing something important.

At this moment, something dances in the corner of my vision.

When my eyes move to it, the figure of one individual emerges in my vision.

Sasamaru: Waka...san?

...Huh? Isn't something...weird?

Is this a hallucination? I'm kinda feeling out of place.

Waka: I finally realized who you are.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Abrupt words.

Waka: Of course. No wonder you were with big sis...and also incompatible with me.

Sasamaru: What are you...talking about?

Waka: I'm saying that I hate you, old geezer.

Well...I already know that.

Waka: Now that it has come to this, I can't help but feel an "inevitability." I'll leave aside if this outcome was correct or not. But regarding {\i1}if the outcome was acceptable as far as I'm concerned{\i0}...

Waka: ...the answer is "no."

Sasamaru: Waka...san?

What are you...

Waka: I was accustomed. I was too accustomed. I was too accustomed to accepting the same outcome.

Waka: But I wanted to risk this time only. This time, here and now, is the moment I should be eagerly waiting for. Conditions worthy of believing in were present.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Waka: So...

//text on screen
"......So, {\i1}wither.{\i0}"

//Chapter 1 end.

With You, Here and Now,

//Chapter 2 start.

//subchapter
Interference Incident
September 25 (Friday)
With You, Here and Now,

...Huh?

E...rr...

Sasamaru: (What...was I doing?)

I'm dumbfounded at myself, simply standing alone on the road to school.

Today...
Today is September 25.

This morning, I felt the dormitory very comfortable, and...

Yes, Harutsuge was...

Harutsuge: H-hey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: About yesterday's topic...umm.

Harutsuge: Err, well. If it's all right with you...

Sasamaru: Yeah?

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: N-no, it's nothing. After school...see you after school.

After that, Hiyo was...

Hiyo: Oh my. Harutsuge-san isn't with you?

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah, no. Harutsuge just left.

Hiyo: ...Jeez...Harutsuge-san always gets cold feet at crucial times.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Ah, it's nothing. So, Harutsuge-san has just left?

Sasamaru: It was a while ago.

Hiyo: Ah, honey. I have to close the doors first. Could you go ahead?

That's right.

Araragi left after Harutsuge did, and I had that conversation with Hiyo after that.

And I'm now going to school while thinking, "I wonder why she's saying that today, of all days."

I raised my expectations, thinking "what if" at Harutsuge's words...

...and then...

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Waka...san?

Waka: Yes.

Sasamaru: What's the matter? It's rare to see you here.

I say, "what's the matter," but the dormitories are near each other. Waka-san too must use this same road to go to school.

What on earth am I asking?
But somehow, I feel like she was waiting for me.

Waka: Ah, it's nothing special. I was pondering about how the red team's project is doing.

The project?
What Waka-san is asking must be regarding the Ayanashisai's project.

The project.
The project is...

Sasamaru: {\i1}It's going well.{\i0}

I should answer like this.
I believe Araragi and Harutsuge will understand.

From the recent feedback, I even feel this will be in the near future.

Waka: Interesting. That's good.

Sasamaru: But Waka-san. You're here just to ask that?

I think she really was waiting for me.

Waka: No. The other time, I met with father. We were in deep talk and, as a result, father was later than the yellow team...and she bumped into you there.

Waka: Then, I thought of testing an experiment. To be in deep talk with you instead of with father. Even if I can advance and rewind the clock's needle, I cannot intentionally "change the result."

Waka: In fact, my actions can only change what's within my reach.

Sasamaru: Huh?

I wonder what she's talking about.

Waka: No, I simply thought of checking if you're holding big sis back.

Words typical of Waka-san finally appear.

Sasamaru: I'm not holding her back...I think. But it's a fact I'm always troubling her.

Waka: Then, show me your right cheek, old geezer.

Waka-san readily takes one step forward.

Waka: And also show me your left cheek, your hinge joint, your spiral joint, your condyloid joint, your pivot joint, your ellipsoid joint, your ball-and-socket joint, your cotyloid joint, your saddle joint, your cylindrical joint, your amphiarthrosis, and your plane joint.

Sasamaru: Wow, what an extensive knowledge. I mean, those are all joints that make me hesitate over jabbing. Do you want to destroy my joints that much?

And like this, an unknown chat is unfolding between Waka-san and I, but...

Hiyo: O...oh my, honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, Hiyo.

Waka: Big sis.

Hiyo: Waka-san?

I guess Hiyo is surprised that we two are chatting here.

Hiyo: You were...chatting with Waka-san this whole time?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: Is...is that so...

Hiyo seems somewhat disappointed.

Waka: ...Well, I'll take my leave.

Sasamaru: Eh?

"Take my leave"? We're going to the same school. We can just go together.
Maybe not if I were alone, but Hiyo is here too.

Waka: Excuse me.

But Waka-san leaves the place.

Sasamaru: (What was that about?)

I scratch my head and head to school with Hiyo.

Waka: I don't know what produces the "change."

Waka: There are times when an extremely small event, like if the chopstick fell over or not, causes a great change. There are times when the result doesn't change even after a great event.

Waka: Well, how will the result be?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Dammit!!

We are walking through the hallway and heading to the classroom when an angry roar plunges into our ears.

When I look over there...
there's a crowd of people.

Hiyo: Did something happen?

Sasamaru: Let's have a look.

In a place near the shoe rack is the classroom of the yellow team, from the plaster course.

It's nothing new that the building's size doesn't match at all the number of students. It's for this same reason that I have no contact with them. Our red team's classroom is too distant.

The center of the ruckus is indeed there. I can even hear quarreling voices.

What we see there is an unbelievable scene.

Sasamaru: What on earth...is this...

It's so disastrous that I almost speak it out loud.

I wonder if that is this class' Ayanashisai project.
But...

You can no longer tell what they were trying to create.

Sasamaru: How did it become like that?

It's in a condition so cruel that I unintentionally let out these words.

Hiyo: For a while now, that gentleman is...

Hiyo mutters this while looking with sympathy at the yellow team student loudly shouting.

Hiyo: He didn't shout, "it broke." He shouted, "was broken."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Who was it!? Who the hell did it!?

Another angry voice overlaps with my frozen thoughts.

Yellow Team Male Student A: This is unfair! The culprit must come forward! This is too much, goddammit!!

With a threatening attitude, as if he might grab me at any moment now...
the student has tears lightly accumulated at the corner of his eyes.

Sasamaru: (Did...someone do this? But why?)

"Interference."
This word crosses my mind.

The Ayanashisai is a contest.
In short, a "competition."

Sasamaru: (But this is...)

There are things you can do and things you can't.

You're finished as an artist when you "destroy another's work in order to knock down your opponent."

It doesn't matter if you're a professional or an amateur.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Who was it!? Who did this!?

The louder the voice becomes, the larger the ruckus gets. The number of people gathering also increases.

Among them is Aone.

Aone: ...

She too is knitting her eyebrows at this terrible scene.

This is not surprising.

This is the Yumemidori Academy. Although the roads we walk on are different, this is a place where those aspiring to become "artists" gather.
Therefore, the passion deep in our roots should be the same.

No one here lacks the imagination power not to realize what it means to "destroy another's work."

"How would I feel if that had happened to me?"
"What does the 'work' mean to an artist?"

For us, this scene is a {\i1}miserable sight{\i0} and very, very painful to watch.

Everyone here understands the reason for the yellow team student to be upset and shedding tears.

Hiyo: Do you have a moment?

During all this, Hiyo gives one step forward.

Hiyo: Are you saying that someone intentionally broke this?

Yellow Team Male Student A: That's right! Someone sabotaged in order to win! With this...this filthy method!

Hiyo: Do you have proof?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Proof? I don't have proof! Can't you tell from looking at this!?

Hiyo: Without proof? Are you really saying this? {\i1}That there's someone in this school who can do something like this?{\i0}

What makes Hiyo speak these words is her pride as a creator.

She too is a "Yumemidori Academy student" who enrolled here with an aspiration.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I...I too...I too don't want to think that...

After Hiyo's calm but strong words, the agitated male student recovers a bit of his composure.

Yellow Team Male Student A: But...but! It's including the casing. Someone threw our work on the floor along with the casing. There's no doubt about this.

Yellow Team Male Student A: It's quite a heavy one. We used an imported casing that prioritizes sturdiness. It has a unique structure. No one can tell how to unlock it with just one glance.

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...Everyone in our class knows how to unlock it. Then, the only other option is that someone from another class did it.

Hiyo: ...

Certainly. I now understand why he's so fixed that someone intentionally broke it.

Hiyo: I am extremely sorry for having to say this, but...

Hiyo: If that's valid as a reason, then isn't there also the possibility that it was {\i1}made to look like that?{\i0}

Yellow Team Male Student A: Huh?

For one moment, the yellow team student is taken aback, as if something unexpected was pointed out.

When he eventually realizes the meaning of these words, he makes a clear expression of discomfort.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Then, what? Are you saying we plotted this to make it appear like it was done by an outsider?

Hiyo: I apologize if it sounded like that.

Yellow Team Male Student A: That's the only way it sounded! What on earth are you planning!?

Sasamaru: (Hiyo?)

These are words she'd never dare to say.

Yes, thinking thoroughly, that also exists as a possibility.
But even if she thinks that, she'd never say those words to the person himself.

It would be different if the yellow team student unreasonably said to Hiyo, "didn't you do it!?"

Hiyo: ...I'm sorry.

Hiyo's low mutter reaches my ears.

Hiyo: However, if you'll discuss simply as a possibility without any definite evidence, you also cannot deny the possibility that I mentioned.

But the next moment, she's tenaciously opposing him for some reason.

I catch a glimpse of a bitterness—not fully concealed—in her shadowed expression.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Stop screwing with me! Why would we destroy our own project!?

Hiyo: ...Because you wouldn't be on time.

Hiyo is really bitter.
But she says this while almost biting her lips.

Hiyo: The project's idea enlarged beyond your expectations, and you wouldn't be able to finish it before the fixed date.

Hiyo: You got impatient, panicked, and wanted to {\i1}put the blame on someone.{\i0}

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...

Hiyo: In addition, there's no proof that the broken project is the one you were creating to present at the Ayanashisai. {\i1}That's why{\i0} you adequately destroyed a failed project.

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...You little...

Hiyo: Or perhaps a quarrel occurred among yourselves, and it broke by accident. Or you purely broke it. Therefore, this is a maneuver to assert that "it's not our fault."

Yellow Team Male Student A: You little...are you really...

Hiyo: Another possibility is that...a pure, a very pure malice toward others...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Don't screw with me!!

An angry roar loud enough to silence the noisy crowd thunders.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Yo...you're really...!

"I'm sorry."
Again, Hiyo mutters this.

Hiyo: ...There was someone looking forward to it.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Eh?

Hiyo: Someone looking forward to the day he would arrive at this school.

...Hiyo?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Wh...what did you say?

Hiyo: No...it's just...you can only suspect outsiders after you deny all and every conceivable possibility.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I know what you want to say! I'm saying like hell we're going to destroy our own project!!

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo...you're...
doing this for...my sake?

Because I was looking forward to coming to this school...
but this incident happened.

She doesn't want me to think this is a place where such an incident {\i1}occurs.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Because I'd be sad?)

That's why Hiyo is with such a bitter face.

Aone: Didn't you do it?

At this moment...

...Aone, who steps forward from the crowd, is looking down on Hiyo as if suspecting her.

Sasamaru: Wha...

Aone: It sounds to me like you're afraid of suspecting an outsider. Is there something inconvenient if this happens?

Sasamaru: H-hey! Hiyo would never do something like that!

Aone: Really? She's very hostile for someone innocent, though.

Sasamaru: But that's...

"...for my sake."

I should say this.
I'm happy for her consideration, but I can't stand Hiyo being suspected.

Sasamaru: That's a misunderstanding. Hiyo is doing it for...

The moment I speak, I feel something pulling my sleeve.

When I turn over, Hiyo is there.

Hiyo: ...

Her eyes are telling, "don't say it."

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

After looking at her eyes, I understand.

Hiyo has resolved herself.
She dared to say that, while fully aware she'd be suspected.

Sasamaru: (You idiot!)

The welling up feelings tighten my chest.

//choice
I can't stand to have Hiyo being suspected!
I'll accept Hiyo's feelings.

//1st choice

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Aone: Why are you apologizing, Sasayan?

Sasamaru: Hiyo was just being considerate of me. Sorry for causing this misunderstanding.

Hiyo: Honey...

Sasamaru: Sorry, Hiyo. But I can't stand you being suspected.

Aone: What do you mean?

Sasamaru: Well...

Sasamaru: It was all in consideration of me. So, could you stop suspecting Hiyo?

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Everyone from the yellow team, I'm sorry. Hiyo wasn't really suspicious of you. Sorry for making you uncomfortable.

I lower my head toward the yellow team students.

Aone: Hmmmm...

Aone is with glaring eyes toward Hiyo.

Aone: Is that so, Kumigami-san?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo, sorry, but tell me the truth.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: If this continues, you'll be suspected for nothing.

Aone: Say it to me, Kumigami-san. Is it as he said?

Hiyo: ...

Aone: Or is he saying this just to protect you?

Why on earth has it come to this?
Aone is awfully flaring up, too.

I know she can't allow unfairness because she values her pride as a student from this school, but...

Sasamaru: Wait, I just said it. Hiyo is...

Aone: I am asking Kumigami-san.

Aone flatly holds me back.

Aone: How is it, Kumigami-san?

Hiyo: ...

So, she wants to make things clear.
Aone's impression is as straight as it can be. I understand her.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, don't mind me. Just say it.

I'm sure Aone will consent if she honestly says it.

But Aone is glaring at Hiyo.
And, unexpectedly, she averts her eyes.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo?

She's acting strange.

I know Hiyo's personality. I understand it's hard to talk about it in a situation like this, but...
how do I say...this isn't the issue.

Hiyo's expression is like she's gasping.

Sasamaru: (...Is she trembling?)

Hiyo is averting her eyes, as if running away from Aone.

//2nd choice

And, in the end, I accept Hiyo's feelings.

As always, while being thankful for her consideration.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: Your friend seems to be silent. How about it, Kumigami-san?

Hiyo: ...

Aone: Kumigami-san?

Hiyo is acting strange.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo...is trembling?)

Hiyo seemed somewhat resolved until a moment ago, but, after Aone questioned her, her face has become paler and paler.

//choice end

Hiyo: ...

Our eyes meet.

Sasamaru: (Huh? These eyes are...)

Before I notice, Hiyo moves as if hiding behind my back.

She's cowering as if curling herself up. This means...

Aone: Oh, {\i1}again?{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Again?)

Aone: You'll take a "shield" again? Hide again in its shadows?

...That's right.
I remember seeing these eyes and behavior.

It was...

Aone: ...Never changing, eh.

After lamenting, Aone turns back with a bit of frustration.

When leaving, what I see at her back is...

Sasamaru: (Ah, the little sister is here too.)

But now, this doesn't matter.

Sasamaru: Hiyo? What's wrong?

Hiyo: I'm...sorry. Honey...

This pale expression, as if she was frozen with fear, is not like her.

Sasamaru: Are you feeling sick? Let's go to the infirmary.

Hiyo: No...I'll soon get better.

Hiyo: I'm sorry for bothering you.

Sasamaru: "Bothering"?

What is she talking about?

At this moment, the chime rings.
The students gathered in front of the yellow team's classroom are quickly returning to their respective classrooms.

We must go too.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, can you walk?

Hiyo: I'm fine, honey.

The moment I urge Hiyo, she appeals to me as if saying she's seeing through me, despite still having a pale face.

"There must be something else bothering her."

Sasamaru: (...Hiyo...)

Certainly.

I can't return to my classroom and leave the yellow team students who went through that.

Sasamaru: ...Hey. If it's all right with you, may I help with the repair work?

It's worthless to look for a culprit. It's a waste of time.
More importantly, what we must do now is repair the broken project.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Eh?

Sasamaru: Of course, only if you let me help. I think maybe you wouldn't like it if someone else touched your project.

Sasamaru: But we have to be on time for the Ayanashisai. Even if it's a backstage supporter, having one more person helping with the work is better, right?

I'm being unreasonable.
We must make our project too. Honestly, we don't have time to help others.

I know this...
but I can't stand still and do nothing about it.

?: That's against the rules.

The one who overhears the ruckus and appears is the student council's...
Waka-san.

Waka: The rule of the Ayanashisai is for the "class" to cooperate and create one project.

Waka: Therefore, the moment you lend your hand to another class, that class will be disqualified.

Sasamaru: No way. Can't you do something? Waka-san, you saw it, didn't you?

Whether you want it or not...
you'll peek at this classroom if you pass nearby.

Its broken shape hurts my chest no matter how many times I look at it.

Sasamaru: I'm not trying to cheat by breaking the rules. Besides, I won't help with building it from scratch. I'll just help repair it. Is this against the rules too?

Waka: It's the rules.

Sasamaru: Rules...I know it, but...!

Waka: In fact, the yellow team already took into consideration the possibility of "it breaking." I received their request and prepared the equipment.

She must be talking about the casing.

Waka: If it broke on top of all that, it's the result of their naive judgment. If necessary, wouldn't they have taken other measures to avoid breaking it?

Sasamaru: But it didn't break! Someone broke it!

There's no point in getting angry at Waka-san.
I know this, but I can't help but say this.

Above all else, correcting that "someone broke it" is unbearably deplorable.

Waka: Do not misunderstand this.

But Waka-san says this while looking straight in my eyes.
As if her unwavering belief was there.

Waka: The school offers you the best possible environment and also any equipment you request. Why do you think that is?

Sasamaru: "Why"?

Because this is the Yumemidori Academy.
The sacred mountain for those aspiring to become artists.

Waka: Because it believes in the creators.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: However, the school doesn't protect the projects. The ones who protect them are you, the creators.

Waka: Do you ask others to protect your "children"? Can't you take responsibility as the creator? Or...are your projects unworthy of being your "children"?

I'm at a loss for words.

Yes, it's exactly as Waka-san says.
Her way of speaking is business-like and blunt...and even cold, but...

What she's saying isn't wrong.

I haven't thought about that.
"Why this school is called the sacred mountain for the artists aspirants."

And also about "the school's high consciousness regarding nurturing the creators."

Waka: Throw away any project without love immediately.

How frustrating.
I'm frustrated for not being able to retort. I'm unbearably worthless.

The school is the party that offers the environment.
And the students' requests are accepted almost unconditionally, just like with us.

As artists, we are in a very blessed environment.

It's because they trust us.
They believe we are humans who don't shame the name of "Yumemidori Academy student."

Despite this, I'm turning a blind eye to my own worthlessness and trying to distort the rules.

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...It's fine. Thanks anyway.

Sasamaru: But...

Yellow Team Male Student A: It's as she says. We couldn't project our "child."

Sasamaru: ...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Don't make that face. Besides, we don't want a project that someone else helped, just like you said.

At this moment, his feelings get across to me.

He's enduring this while clenching his teeth. I'm now painfully aware of his feelings.

The fruits of the accumulation of their efforts so far were destroyed by an abrupt swoop from an unreasonable situation.
They returned to the starting point.

No matter how much you want to turn your eyes away from reality, this is the only thing you realize, whether you want it or not.

However, if you seek help, you'll end up troubling the other party.

And above all else, even if you repair a broken project, it'll already be "another project."

He's enduring it while inside this coldhearted blend.

Sasamaru: ...I get the idea.

He's speaking with all this in mind. I'm unable to butt in.

Sasamaru: Sorry for being impertinent.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Thanks anyway. You're a good person.

Dammit.

What on earth is this?
Dammit.
This is too much.

Waka: It seems the situation was correctly "replaced."

Waka: The old geezer {\i1}repeated the mistake he once did.{\i0} He should have been warned about the meaning of the act of "lending a hand."

Waka: It's proof he doesn't remember anything. This is good.

Waka: All that's left is to approach the desired outcome.

First class period.

Sasamaru: ...

Second class period.

Sasamaru: ...

I don't remember well the classes after that.

Third class period.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

And then, today's lessons end.

And at the same time, I rush out of the classroom.

Usually, I'd go straight to the water mill at this hour.

But for some reason, the place where I go to today is here.

The front of the yellow team's classroom.

Sasamaru: ...

Then, without calling out or entering it, I simply stand still in front of the classroom.

Sasamaru: (And there's nothing I can do.)

Despite this, why did I come here?

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Whoa!!

After turning around to the voice, there's Hiyo.

Sasamaru: W-what happened?

Hiyo: I'm sorry for surprising you. I was sure you'd be here.

Sasamaru: Eh...

Hiyo: I was right on the mark.

Judging from her tone, it looks like Hiyo came straight here after leaving the classroom.

...She got me. She saw through everything.

Hiyo: Honey, do as you agree.

Then, she pushes my back.
As if she knew I wanted someone to push my back.

"If 'someone' is fine, I want to take on this role."

...I have the feeling I heard this voice.

Sasamaru: I do...agree. What Waka-san said is correct.

Sasamaru: And the yellow team's decision is also correct.

That's why there's nothing I can do.
First, it doesn't matter if I agree or not.

I simply have these feelings of unable to sit still, whirling.

At this moment...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Everyone, I'm sorry.

Yellow Team Male Student A: This lamentable event is my responsibility as the head of the class. I'm sorry.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I want to discuss with everyone what we'll do from now on.

What I hear from beyond the sliding door is the voice of the yellow team student from before.

Now, they're in the middle of a discussion.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Some of you might feel uneasy, but...

Yellow Team Male Student A: If possible, I don't want to search for the culprit. Honestly, I don't care about this.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I lost my composure earlier, but...there was someone who cheered me up. There was someone who tried to help with the repair work.

Yellow Team Male Student A: After that, I calmed down. And the student council girl also gave me a warning. But I want to think proactively.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Our project broke. Unfortunately, this is an undeniable fact. I want to ask everyone about what you want to do and what we should do.

...And then, silence.

I don't know how many students the yellow team has, but it seems everyone is silent.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Any...ideas?

Yellow Team Male Student B: Well, leader.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Y-yeah.

Yellow Team Male Student B: You must be bothered about the culprit.

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...I know.

Yellow Team Male Student B: That person is still here inside the school, right? And laughing behind our backs, right?

Yellow Team Male Student A: That might...be so.

Yellow Team Male Student B: I want to make a project that this person can never break again.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Eh?

Yellow Team Male Student B: I want to make a project that, when standing before it, this person will get cold feet and won't even want to touch it.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Dude...

Yellow Team Female Student A: I agree.

Yellow Team Female Student A: I'm also bothered by the culprit, but I don't care about it.

Yellow Team Female Student A: More importantly, I'm frustrated that our project {\i1}could be broken{\i0}.

Yellow Team Female Student A: I want to create a project to make the culprit so frustrated that this person will never think of "breaking it" again.

One after another...
I can hear the yellow team students agreeing with these words.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Everyone...

Yellow Team Male Student B: All that's left is your command, leader. If you say, "let's do it," we'll immediately start working on our new project.

Yellow Team Female Student A: And a project far better than the broken one.

After this, a small pause.

Why is there a pause here?
The reason for this echoes inside my chest.

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...Let's do it.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Let's create our new project. Let's make an even better one before the fixed date!

Yellow Team Male Student A: Everyone, let's create a project to surprise that culprit!!

Yellow Team Students: Yeah!!

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo and I unconsciously look at each other.

Sasamaru: Looks like we're in their way.

Hiyo: It seems so.

We both make an awkward smile.

We should promptly leave.
As to not get in their way.

...Ah, this is the highly honored school.

The sacred mountain for the artists aspirants, the yearned Yumemidori Academy.

After that, I started working on the project together with Hiyo...
and I'm now returning to the dorm.

I said, "I have some business," and let Hiyo return to the dorm first. Now, I'm walking through the hallway of the yellow team's classroom.

Sasamaru: ...

The reason I unintentionally came here is...

Sasamaru: (They're incredible.)

It's too presumptuous to worry about them.
I was worried but ended up being stimulated by their enthusiasm instead.

If there are words I should say to them, it must be, "sorry for making light of you all."

Perhaps I wanted to touch on the vestiges of that enthusiasm.

Perhaps I wanted to borrow their enthusiasm in order to encourage myself.

...For the objective that I must accomplish.

Sasamaru: (Guess...the lights are off.)

The classroom lights are off.

Which means they returned to the dorms for today.
Well, it's this late, too.

I take one breath and pass in front of the classroom.

Sasamaru: (...Hmm?)

I stop my legs at the momentary discomfort.

Sasamaru: (Was there a light just now?)

Although, it's very clear that the classroom lights are off.

...Again.

Sasamaru: (Is someone there?)

At this hour...
well, I'm one to talk.

But inside that pitch dark classroom?

"Maybe someone fell asleep while working on the project and just now woke up."
I approach the classroom while having these unnatural guesses.

A third time.
Now, the light's movement reminds me of something.

"Flashlight."

Yes, a flashlight.
Someone is holding a flashlight and moving inside the dark classroom.

And that light is cast on the sliding door by coincidence...
I suppose.

Sasamaru: (But what for?)

The problem is here.
The only person who would walk around the classroom with a flashlight at this hour is the school guard.

But it doesn't seem to be the case.

Then, another reason for this would be...

Sasamaru: (The person doesn't want to be found?)

If he simply was searching or forgot something, he should turn on the lights.

Not doing this means he doesn't want to stand out.
In short...

Sasamaru: (It's not someone from the yellow team!!)

After sensing this, I carefully move closer to the sliding door.

I've never been to the classroom at night, so, I don't know if he can see me, but there's the moonlight from the hallway's side. My shadow may be cast on the sliding door.
After thinking this...

In a position barely touching the neighboring classroom...
In a position where both my body and my shadow aren't appearing on the sliding door due to the moonlight...

...I stand there and peek inside the classroom.

Sasamaru: (What's that sound?)

One more step.
Without making any sound, I approach the classroom and open the sliding door a little.

A small opening is created.
I approach my face in order to peek inside the room from there.

What I see inside the dim light is...

...the yellow team's classroom scenery, probably from the plaster course.

And a plaster figure still without shape.

This means it's a plaster figure that's starting to take shape.

Informing the start of the creation, this unshapely object...
deeply impresses me.

Sasamaru: (So, that's the path they chose.)

Again, my chest gets hotter from their spirit.

Even if they start now, they might not be on time.
But they want to work hard until the end.

For this, they're cooperating once more and creating the project.

These feelings echo inside my chest.

This sound that I hear a second time brings me back to reality.

Yellow Team Male Student A: But...but! It's including the casing.

What resounds in the back of my mind is his helpless voice.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Someone threw our work on the floor along with the casing. There's no doubt about this.

The casing...
...there it is.

Yellow Team Male Student A: It has a unique structure. No one can tell how to unlock it with just one glance.

A unique structure.
Sure, you can't tell how to unlock it with just one glance.

But there's a key.

The framework surely seems unique, but can't you unlock it with the key?

Sasamaru: (No, you can't.)

That key is a dummy.

I now know, after closely looking at it. You can't disassemble the casing just by unlocking it.

That makes sense.
Yes, you "can only unlock if you know how to."
I think this is correct.

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

There's a hand approaching the project.
This hand grabs the casing itself.

Sasamaru: (Don't tell me...)

My heartbeat gets faster.
Ringing like an alarm bell, it's trying to make clear the meaning of this situation.
And this becomes clear after putting it into words.

To grab the casing itself means...

...to realize that the key is a dummy.
...that "you don't know how to unlock it."
In short...
this sound is the sound of dragging the casing.

It means {\i1}to try to throw the project on the floor!!{\i0}

Sasamaru: What are you doing!?

For one moment, my vision goes blank. When I come to, I'm opening the sliding screen as if striking it.

?: Eh...

A gasping voice.

An individual reflected by the moonlight.

Sasamaru: It's...

It's very unexpected.

Sasamaru: Ao...mai?

The one there is one of the blue sisters...
the younger sister, Aomai.

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: What...are you doing?

It's very clear.
Anyone can tell "what she's doing" without even asking.
But I have to ask.

Aomai: ...Taking a walk.

Sasamaru: Of course, taking a walk.

...Ah, I at least...
wanted for her to be honest.

I wanted for her to use a better excuse.

Sasamaru: (Urgh!)

I didn't want to think a student who could do that existed in this school!!

Sasamaru: What on earth are you doing!?

My angry voice echoes in the classroom illuminated by the moonlight.

Aomai: Don't shout.

Sasamaru: You're really...!

Aomai: I know. You found me, so, I'm out. I'll give up on the yellow team.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

I'm taken aback by these words.

Aomai: What?

These words have no malice...and...

Sasamaru: Does that...mean...

Aomai: What now?

Sasamaru: You'll give up {\i1}on the yellow team{\i0} means...

Aomai: Ah.

Now, Aomai finally makes an "oh, no" face.

Sasamaru: ...

Is there...something else?

What comes to mind is...

Sasamaru: Don't tell me...Araragi's matter was also...

The matter that only we should know. The one that has spread inside the whole school.

Sasamaru: Was that also you?

But for what?
Is she planning to break us up?
My mind isn't working.

Aomai: ...

The moment I say this, Aomai makes a face of "what?"
"Ah, that matter."

{\i1}"...Such a trifling matter."{\i0}

Sasamaru: Ugh!

It's not that.
It's not trifling.

In short...
this means...

It was done on purpose.
It was done proactively.

Just like she's doing here and now, she was repeatedly sabotaging!!

Sasamaru: What the hell are you doing!?

I gush out a loud voice, resounding inside the silent school.

Eventually...

Aomai: ...Are we done?

She lets out a small mutter in this classroom filled with silence.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Aomai: We're done, right? You came and I couldn't break it. So, this chat is over.

Sasamaru: ...Huh?

Aomai: See ya.

After saying this, she tries to leave.

This must be some kind of joke.
She might be confused.
She has no idea of what's going on and is trying to escape.

But her way of walking is too calm.

Acting as if it was the same as always.

Sasamaru: Wait a minute!!

When she passes beside me, I promptly grab her arm.

Aomai: What? It hurts.

Sasamaru: "Are we done," you say? You sneaked here yesterday and broke the yellow team's project!

Aomai: That's already over. They decided to make a new one. So, I came again to break it. Isn't this the topic?

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: But it's your fault that this failed. So, there's no incident. Nothing happened, all right?

I don't know what she's talking about.
I really don't.

I wonder if she's speaking in Japanese.
If it's Japanese, why am I not understanding it?

She's not speaking in unknown words, but why can't I understand her?

Sasamaru: You also...did several others...

Aomai: What do you mean "others"? Do you know what I did?

Sasamaru: About Araragi's discussion!

Aomai: Got any proof?

Sasamaru: Proof, you say!?

Aomai: You don't have, do you? So, we're done. May I go?

For one moment, I feel a dizziness from this feeling, as if the floor was crumbling.

Sasamaru: You...you're not aware of this? You're not aware of what you did?

Aomai: I know. I've just said it.

Sasamaru: Do you think about how this responsibility will return?

Aomai: Responsibility?

Aomai makes a curious expression.

Sasamaru: The yellow team decided to make a new project. If you know this, you also saw them burning with motivation, didn't you? Didn't you feel anything from that?

Sasamaru: They made a comeback to fulfill their Ayanashisai's responsibilities as a student from this school and as a student from the yellow team. Don't you know what this means?

Aomai: ...What are you talking about?

Sasamaru: Your blue team too should be engaging in a project to fulfill your responsibilities as the blue team, right?

Aomai: Our class is doing well. No problems here.

What are you saying?

Sasamaru: You caused a problem, correct?

Aomai: Huh?

Sasamaru: You're a member of the blue team. You have the self-awareness of being a member of the group, don't you?

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: It's not just yours. It's the "blue team's" responsibility.

Sasamaru: After doing something like this, the "blue team" has no right to participate in the Ayanashisai. The students earnestly striving with their projects won't turn a blind eye to "the blue team."

At this moment, Aomai makes a distorted face for the first time.

Aomai: T-the blue team has nothing to do...!

Sasamaru: No. You're from the blue team. This equals to "the blue team is sabotaging another class."

Aomai: It's not a sabotage if I fail!

Sasamaru: That's enough!!

Unable to restrain my irritation, I shout.

Sasamaru: Then, let's talk about this with everyone. Let's hear everyone's opinion and decide what to do.

Sasamaru: The Ayanashisai...is the school festival of everyone here.

Aomai: ...S-stop it.

Sasamaru: What now?

Aomai: Stop it!

Sasamaru: Why? "It's not sabotage if you fail," right? "There's no incident," right?

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: Now, I'm going to report about this.

I start walking toward the sliding door, which is the entrance.

Sasamaru: I too am a student from this school. And also a member of the red team.

Sasamaru: I cannot let this cowardly act pass.

Aomai: No...stop, stop!

Sasamaru: No. I already know this. And it's not something to keep inside my chest.

Aomai: I said stop it! Stop it!

Sasamaru: ...Got it.

Aomai: Eh?

Good.
She finally realizes...

...what she did.
...what she has done.

I stop my legs and face her again.

Aomai: You...understand?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I won't say it.

After taking one breath, I say this to the relieved Aomai.

Sasamaru: You'll say it yourself.

Aomai: ...Huh?

Sasamaru: Like this, everyone will know you're sorry. The school might be flexible with you.

Aomai: There's no point in that!

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aomai: Are you stupid? Did you listen to me? If I do that, the blue team will be the bad guys!

Sasamaru: But you have done this.

Aomai: I said I want to make it like this never happened! All right!? You just have to forget that all this happened!

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: I won't do it anymore! You happy now!? Even if I don't do this, the blue team will win anyway!

Sasamaru: ...

Again, my vision sways.

Sasamaru: Do you know the feelings of the yellow team students?

Aomai: They're more united than before because I broke it! Let's leave it like this!

Sasamaru: ...You also did many others.

Aomai: That has nothing to do with this!

Sasamaru: You're...really...

...It's no good.
I can't say it.

The next words are not coming out.

Aomai: Where are you going!?

Sasamaru: I'm going to report on this.

Aomai: But didn't you understand me!?

Sasamaru: I'm sorry, but it's useless to keep talking. After I report this, you'll have to accept the result of the school's...of everyone's decision.

Aomai: Stop it! The blue team will win even if I don't do this! I won't do it anymore!

Sasamaru: If you believe so much in your own class, why on earth did you obstruct other classes!?

This is more of a roar than a scream.

Sasamaru: You mistook your ways. You must accept responsibility for what you've done.

Aomai: N-no...

Sasamaru: It's all right. You saw the yellow team, didn't you? They will start over. They will surely start over. So, now you must take responsibility.

Aomai: I...I want sis to win!!

Aomai screams.

Aomai: Sis is working hard...working with all her might! So, I want her to win!

Sasamaru: Everyone is working hard. That's no reason to be unfair.

Aomai: This is the only way I can help her!

Sasamaru: What are you talking about? You can just work with her on the project.

Aomai: I'll only stand in her way!

Sasamaru: Again, what are you talking about? You were chosen by this school, weren't you?

Yes, that's why I can't turn a blind eye.

There's a person chosen by this school doing something like this.
There's a person chosen by this school obstructing another one chosen by this same school.

Aomai: I...don't know how I passed.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Aomai: I myself think it's strange. Sis might be okay, but, before I enrolled here, I practically never created anything.

Sasamaru: You must have enough talent.

Aomai: Wrong, you're wrong. I'm not talented. I know this more than anyone. I'm the one most confused about why I was accepted at the Yumemidori Academy.

Tears faintly appear in Aomai's eyes.

Sasamaru: The school chose you. I can't say anything about your talents, but I think you should be more proud about being recognized by the school.

Aomai: I...I'm always standing in her way. Sis is always covering for me.

Aomai: Do you...do you understand what I'm saying? This feeling of wanting to help but being unable to...

Aomai: I don't know why I'm able to be here. I want to help but can't...so frustrating, but I don't know what I should do...

Sasamaru: ...

"I don't know why I'm able to be here. I want to help but can't"?

"So frustrating, but I don't know what I should do..."

Aomai: This is the only way for me to be beside sis!

Sasamaru: ...!

Aomai: This is the only way for me to help sis...

...When I come to, I'm now unable to move after Aomai's powerless shout.

I...
I...

I...close the opened sliding screen.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: I want to be beside sis...I want to be helpful to her...but I don't have the strength.

Aomai: This is the only way for me to make sis win!

...Honestly, I don't understand what she's saying.

But...

"I don't know why I'm able to be here. I want to help but can't."

"So frustrating, but I don't know what I should do."

These words pierce my chest.

It's not bothering.
It's {\i1}piercing{\i0}.

Sasamaru: (So, she's...)

That's right, she's...

Sasamaru: (...the same as me.)

The same as me, who wished to slip out of that darkness.

Frantically clinging to it.
Earnestly clinging in order to be liked.

Appealing with bloodshot eyes that "I want this to be the place where I belong."

Sasamaru: ...

I stop putting strength in my hand.
My enraged shoulders are subsiding too.

At this moment, I'm simply standing stock still.

Eventually, a mutter escapes from my mouth.

Sasamaru: I'll...forget what I saw here.

Aomai: Eh?

Sasamaru: You go back to the dorms.

Aomai: Really? You're not lying? Aren't you just trying to calm me and later...

Sasamaru: I don't lie.

Aomai: ...

Aomai: ...Right, got it.

She isn't relaxing her expression of caution, but after looking at me, who is not saying anything else, she tries to leave the classroom as if she was a bit relieved.

And toward her back, I...

Sasamaru: But try to...

Aomai: ...?

Sasamaru: Try to forget that feeling of "wanting to be liked even by obstructing others."

Because that's very sad.

Aomai: ...

...
......

Aomai: Ah!

I hear a voice like a gulp from the hallway she exited to.

And a short while after it, low footsteps disappearing into the hallway.

Sasamaru: ...

What appears when I open the sliding door is...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...What's wrong?

Hiyo: You were late and...I thought, "what if"...

Sasamaru: ...Were you listening?

Hiyo: I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: No, I'm the one who should apologize. I'm sorry.

Hiyo: You don't have to.

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you have the freedom to do what you want regarding what you saw and heard here.

Sasamaru: If you can't ignore her, you may tell about this to the yellow team. That's the correct thing to do. No one will blame you.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: But I have one request. I don't mind if you ignore it. But listen to it.

Sasamaru: If possible, could you...

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: ...Hmm?

Hiyo: I've just arrived here.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Only we two are here, honey.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Well, let's return to the dormitory.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Oops...

And then...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Ah...what...are you doing?

Sasamaru: It's you.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I was...bothered by the project. After what happened...so...

Sasamaru: ...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Aah...our classroom sliding screen is open...w-what is all this?

Yellow Team Male Student A: I'm stupid like this, you see? I don't quite get it...could you explain what this means? Like, why at this time...sorry, sorry! I'm just a little worried!

Sasamaru: Well...

How should I answer?

I'm awfully calm.
No, my feelings have a calmness similar to a feeling of emptiness, but I still haven't prepared the words to explain this to someone else.

I said to her, "I'll forget about this."

But now that I've been seen, I can no longer act like "nothing happened."

What should I say?

Aone: I saw it.

...Eh?

Sasamaru: Aomai?

Aomai: I saw it. He tried to destroy your class' project.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Wha...!

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Yellow Team Male Student A: H-hey, what are you talking about? You're joking, right? Look, he was...

Aomai: He said it. He acted like that in front of everyone as to not be suspected. He also said you're an idiot for being so easily fooled.

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...

...What on earth?

Yellow Team Male Student A: H-hey. I don't like this. This is stupid.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Just now, I wanted to hear words to feel relieved. I wasn't suspecting you. I was just a bit sensitive. You should have said, "I just came to peek at your project."

Yellow Team Male Student A: T-this is a contest, right? You do check on others, right? Am I right?

Sasamaru: ...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Just say this. If you say it, I'll believe you.

Sasamaru: ...

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...Why...aren't you saying anything!?

The words aren't coming out.

What on earth is this?

Hiyo: It wasn't him.

Yellow Team Male Student A: O-of course! That can't be true, right?

Aomai: Do you have proof?

Aomai: Do you have proof that he didn't do it?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Hey, enough already! It's not them!

Hiyo: I do not have definitive evidence to present, but I know who is the culpr...

What's holding Hiyo's tongue is...

...our promise just now of "only Hiyo and I were here."

Yellow Team Male Student A: I don't care who's the culprit! That's not what I'm talking about!

Hiyo: Is that so.

Aomai: Got it. You're an accomplice. You two agreed beforehand and are trying to destroy the yellow team's project, aren't you?

Hiyo: Wha...

Aomai: Which reminds me, Hiyokel. You said to the yellow team student, "didn't you do this yourselves?" Perhaps, that was a...

Sasamaru: That's not it!

Hiyo was being considerate of me.
Why are you mixing the facts?

Sasamaru: It's not...Hiyo.

But if I say the truth here, Aomai will...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Stop saying, "it's not her!" That means there's a culprit!!

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: This is the only way for me to be beside sis!

Aomai: This is the only way for me to help sis...

I'm sure she wasn't lying.
There was no lie in those words.

I simply want to avoid Hiyo being suspected.

Sasamaru: It's not...Hiyo.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I said stop it!

Aomai: Then, who is it?

Sasamaru: Well...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Hey, you too! I don't care about looking for the culprit!

Hiyo: I-I'll say it, then. The culprit is...

Aomai: Hey, Hiyokel.

Aomai: {\i1}Shut up.{\i0}

Hiyo: ...!

Yellow Team Male Student A: H-hey, stop arguing. I said that I don't care, okay?

Aomai: But it's a fact that he exited from your class at this hour. You are bothered about this, aren't you?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Ah...h-hey, you're Suu...right? I'll believe you if you say, "it's nothing."

Aomai: Sneaking at this hour and "it's nothing"?

Yellow Team Male Student A: Ngh...t-then say "I was checking" or "I entered the yellow team's classroom by mistake." Do this and we're done here, okay?

Aomai: You fine with that?

Yellow Team Male Student A: I am!!

Sasamaru: ...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Hey, Suu...

Sasamaru: ...

Yellow Team Male Student A: Hey...?

I can just say anything appropriate.
He himself is saying this.

But this is the same as admitting that "I'm the one who broke the yellow team's project yesterday."

I can't lie like this.

As a student from the Yumemidori Academy, not even as a joke can I admit that "I broke another's project in order to win."

Anything but this.

...Anything.

Yellow Team Male Student A: HEEEEEEY!!

This is why I can only keep silent.

Yellow Team Male Student A: ...ammit...

...Only keep silent.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Dammitttt!!

...Aah.

If I were...

If I were stronger...

...I'm sorry, honey...

//subchapter
Cold Days
September 28 (Monday)
With You, Here and Now,

Much time is needed to build trust between people.

This is a fact everyone experiences firsthand.

This is why everyone knows.

An absurd amount of time is necessary to build trust, but...

...to lose it, it's a single moment.

I wonder if, even with all that, he believed he had unwavering bonds.

The bonds with the friends who spent time with him in his childhood.

These bonds...
that he patiently endured and worked to rebuild it after a long time.

You say these bonds still exist, even after accepting the wrongdoings of someone who's not even a friend and without justifying that it isn't true?

Or is he aware of everything?

Despite all this, I wonder if he did that out of his own will.

...In any case.

In front of me lies only the answer.

Now, flowing through this dorm...

...this cold air, the answer.

A noisy dining table.
But what's bustling isn't the voices of the ones at this table.

The somewhat lonesome sounds of the tableware touching each other are swimming in this atmosphere without interlacing with each other.

No one is speaking.
Although there was an awkwardness before, the conversation thrived normally at the dining table.

Now, there's not even this.

Even I feel this.

The one feeling this on his skin more than anyone is none other than...

Male Student A: Hey, it's him.

Commotion spreads simply by walking through the hallway.

Everyone is looking at him.
Looking at him with expressions of disgust.

Male Student B: Hey, you. You know what you did!?

Female Student A: You're the worst.

Cruel words.

For them, it's justifiable abuse and criticism.

I don't know if a justifiable abuse exists in this world, nor if it should exist, but I can understand their feelings if I were in their shoes.

They can't turn a blind eye purely because they're students from this school.

Even the rough words coming out of their mouths...
aren't coming out because they want to.

They simply don't know what to do with the "can't overlook" feelings.

Because they're earnest...
Because they're pure...
...they can't stand still after feeling that their dear pride was sullied.

That's why, for them, this is a justifiable abuse and criticism.

But for me...

Male Student A: The disgrace of the Yumemidori Academy!!

...it's nothing more than slander.

Hiyo: Ugh.

There's something welling up.

This feeling is a bottled-up anger and an unrestrained sadness...
...becoming a mix without anything. I'm unable to perceive its true shape.

My vision becomes blurred very fast.

Hiyo: (I must not cry.)

I must not cry.
The one really in pain is him.

It's rude for me to cry like this.

Hiyo: Ugh...uh...

I'll have no excuse for his back, accepting everything and enduring.

I wonder if this situation would be different if I had shouted, "it's not him," at that time.

Aomai: Hey, Hiyokel.

Aomai: {\i1}Shut up.{\i0}

I'm trembling.

It is a trembling I cannot suppress with willpower.

Hiyo: Uuh...

Suddenly, a nostalgic scenery crosses my mind.

?: ...Excuse me.

?: The subject of that "punishment" is me.

?: She is not me. She isn't me.

Hiyo: ...

Male Student A: Hey, it's him.

My every day changed.

Male Student A: The disgrace of the Yumemidori Academy!!

There are jeers flying about.

For the actions of a single person to affect the every day this much...

Sasamaru: (I'd never have thoug...)

...No, I knew it.
I knew I'd turn out like this.

Because this is the Yumemidori Academy.
Because they believe in the pride of the students gathered at this school.

And also...

...because I'm Sasamaru from the "Suu household."

Sasamaru: ...

It's no use.

Accept it.
Accept it and move forward.

At that time, I didn't realize the weight of what I'd accept.
I didn't think it'd turn out like this.
Now, it's very painful.

This is just an excuse.

I knew that. This isn't something completely unexpected.

Yes, it's really painful now that I'm the target of the criticism, but...
I decided it after all that.

So, don't be ashamed.

Face forward.
Hold your head high.

Accept it and walk forward.

Sasamaru: Oops.

Suddenly, I bump onto someone.

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: ...

Silently, Harutsuge leaves as if she was glaring at me.

Sasamaru: ...

A student from the Yumemidori Academy.
Still young, but very proud.

Everyone is like this.
No exceptions.

Sasamaru: (...No.)

It's not just that.

Harutsuge believed in me.

Although, there were disagreements like when I first arrived here, and we're still not creating the project together.

Still, Harutsuge believed in the person called "Suu Sasamaru."

That's why she's angry.

Because I betrayed her.
She must think that I betrayed these feelings.

She isn't thinking, "you'll pay."
She is "angry."

Sasamaru: ...

July 7, the bamboo grass soars toward the heavens.

It is puffing up with pride, with the labels of everyone's wishes on it.
This is the reason that the bamboo grass is believed to be the object in which our ancestors' spirits dwell.

The Tanabata festival.

The once-per-year spotlight of the "bamboo grass."

"Orchid,"
"Bamboo,"
"Chrysanthemum,"
"Plum blossom."

"The Four Noble Ones."

But the "bamboo grass" is not in here.
It is simply a character in another story, the Tanabata festival.

It is similar to the one that governs the summer: the bamboo, one of the four praised as a noble plant.
But it is not bamboo.

Hiyo: B-bamboo and bamboo grass—sasa—are almost the same...

I know that.
It was her kindness.

And also the sympathy of the friends who accepted it.

The granted seat of the bamboo.
But "bamboo grass" is "bamboo grass."

It can't become "bamboo."

...It can't become bamboo.

This situation is simply to accept the decision I made.

As I thought...
As I thought, just a little bit, this...

Sasamaru: (...This hurts.)

The words overflowing from my mouth are surprisingly fainthearted.
And trembling.

Sasamaru: (As I thought...)

...I might be nothing more than a "bamboo grass."

Several days have passed since then.

Outspoken jeering and sneering have reduced, but still, the sense of distance from the surroundings hasn't changed.

No, it's more correct if I say that it has stabilized.

As soon as they see him, the students merrily chatting in the hallway return to their classrooms, displeased.
Or perhaps dispirited.

Outspoken criticism has disappeared, and, in its place, a brazen attitude has become commonplace.

This distance from him has stabilized.

And today, after class, we start working on the project at the water mill.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

We focus on the project without letting out a single word.
It's natural it becomes like this when working on a project.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

...It's natural.

It's natural because it's a project.

...I simply want to think this.

Yes, there have been many times when both...or perhaps one of us was focused, and the other one didn't talk in consideration.

But anyone here can tell that the silence at this moment isn't {\i1}this.{\i0}
It is a heavy air as if it was supporting the falling sky.

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes?

This is why his words are really unexpected.

I'm surprised, but, as much as possible, I make a smile as not to let it show.

Sasamaru: Well...

Having difficulty in breaking the ice, his voice is gloomy.
At this moment, I infer that the topic he's trying to talk about isn't a good one.

Sasamaru: You don't have to go out of your way and...stay with me.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: They will look even at you with hate if you stay with me.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: So, don't mind me.

Aah.
Aah, he is...

He's thinking about others, even at a time like this.

The inside of my chest stings.

Hiyo: Looks like it's about to rain. We should finish our work for today, honey.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: ...

He is...

Sasamaru: It's fine. Don't worry about me.

He gently repeats the same words.

Hiyo: (It's not that.)

The reason my chest hurts is not that.

It's being tightened by his kindness...
but the place that really hurts is elsewhere.

I'm in grief.

Hiyo: I'll always be by your side.

Sasamaru: But Hiyo...

Hiyo: Honey, as long as you don't say I'm "bothering" you, I'll stay here.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: I'll be here.

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo.

...Aah.

I wonder if there's something I can do for him.

Isn't there something I can do?

We won't finish it at this pace.

He probably muttered that unconsciously.

Anyone who joins the project can tell.

He isn't someone who would dare say that as a joke just to stir up the anxiety.

We aren't cutting corners. We have the sections we're responsible for, and we're diligently working every day.

On top of this, we're somewhat overdoing it and working on more than we had scheduled.

Even so, there's no end in sight.
We simply lack manpower.

At the start, he had calculated with "four people."

"A calculation to finish with four people."
On the other hand, "a calculation that won't be finished without four people."

To make it easier for the other two to join, we increased the pace at the start and gained "savings," but...
it isn't enough to "finish it with just the two of us."

Summing up, the savings are no longer savings.

Now, what we are amassing aren't savings. It's simply the impossible act of "the two of us working on something that will never be finished."

We are at our limits.

Now, we must have Araragi-san and Harutsuge-san join us.

We won't be on time for the Ayanashisai.

Hiyo: ...

I glance at him.
As I thought, his expression is as if he's enduring something.

At first, we gave our best while dreaming of the day when the two would lend us their help, "they'll understand someday."
That's why we were able to advance this far.

But since the incident from before...

...Sorry for saying this, but he seems not to believe in this "someday."

It is as if, before he noticed, the work he started for his ideal was crushed by the weight of the reality he was carrying.

Sasamaru: It's my...fault.

The irritation coiling in his insides makes him blurt these words exactly because he knows this more than anyone.

Hiyo: Ngh.

This is more painful than anything.

This pleasant sound bringing refresh is the wind chime decorating the house frontage since long ago.

This tone that we put out in summer and forgot to put away is flowing as if cooling down my body.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you have the freedom to do what you want regarding what you saw and heard here.

Sasamaru: If you can't ignore her, you may tell about this to the yellow team. That's the correct thing to do. No one will blame you.

Sasamaru: But I have one request. I don't mind if you ignore it. But listen to it.

Sasamaru: If possible, could you...

...I had understood.

This is something he decided. I must not interfere.

So...
I had "understood."

But...

Hiyo: ...

But, as I thought...

Hiyo: ...Nngh...

But, as I thought...
I cannot "agree."

Hiyo: (I'm sorry.)

The fact that I'm thinking this is because I'm still lacking.
I'm still a child.

That's why I still...

I still do not have the qualifications to be beside him.

Isn't there something I can do?

Anything is fine.
Any means to break out of this situation.

Hiyo: (If I engage in the work without sleeping or resting...)

"It'll be useful. The possibility of finishing it will increase a little."
The fact that I'm thinking like this means I'm lacking in composure.

The matter isn't if it "will finish" or "won't finish." The core of the matter isn't this.

I know this.
Winning at the Ayanashisai itself isn't important.

His wish is to create the Ayanashisai's project with everyone's cooperation.
With this, honey wishes for our past relationship...

...No, his wish is to build a new relationship with the four of us.

This was right before him.
There was a firm response.

But we couldn't accomplish it.
"It" happened before we could accomplish it.

Should I lower my head and ask Araragi-san and Harutsuge-san?

I'm sure he'll be happy if they return.
I'll be able to look at his smile.

Hiyo: (But...)

If he finds out about this...

...I'll be destroying his pride. He simply believes and continues his work.

Now, he might not believe in the "someday" anymore, but...

...still, he must believe in it somewhere.

Meaning that this action is like trampling on his earnest attitude.

Then, I must do it so that he doesn't notice...

Hiyo: (No.)

If I do that, I won't be able to look straight in his eyes anymore.

I cannot bear this.

I don't want this.

Hiyo: Ah.

The moment I notice the existence of drops overflowing from the corner of my eyes, I realize.

I understand it.

Hiyo: (Yes, I......)

//subchapter
The Courage Whereabouts
October 2 (Friday)
With You, Here and Now,

I'm still the same as before.

I thought I had grown up a little, but I haven't changed at all since then.

I wanted to be like him, to be a bit closer to him.

I'm worthless.

Also, I realized something.
I noticed it.

The real feelings deep inside me.

Hiyo: (How ugly.)

After noticing, there's just self-awareness.
I can't deceive this.

"I'll always be by your side."

I said that, but, walking beside him, I can't even look straight at his face.

Hiyo: (I'm a disgusting woman.)

Beside him.
The place I wholeheartedly desire.

I have no right to be here.
I have no right to stay here.

Hiyo: (I...)

Aone: ...Oh.

Hiyo: Ah...!

Aone: Oh my. You two are on a date? That's quite the composure.

Hiyo: ...

There, look.

Even at this time, I'm still thinking about myself.

I can't control my face going pale.
I can't restrain my body from receding.

Hiyo: (But the one in pain is him.)

The feelings running up from deep inside quickly take control of me.

Like a dog fastened to a chain, I cannot move.

I'm just, just...

Hiyo: (I'm scared.)

The only thing I can do is hide behind his back.
In a time like this, I push him forward and hide behind him.

This is why...

Ah, this is why I realized.

In the end, I'm just pretty and nothing else.

?: The subject of that "punishment" is me.

?: She is not me. She isn't me.

Sasamaru: Aone.

Aone: I mean, learn our names already. I am...

Sasamaru: (...Huh?)

Hiyo: ...

...Again.

Hiyo is trembling, the same as before.

As if a fear that cannot be held down with willpower was overflowing from inside.

Still, her expression, as if she's earnestly enduring it, is conveying her tolerance.

As if she was prohibiting herself with "it's inexcusable to shiver."

Hiyo: ...ah...

Again, our eyes meet.

Her eyes are saying:

//text on screen
Help

Also, I know these eyes.

These eyes...

Aone: ...and that's my name. Now you know it.

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah, well, what was that again?

Aone: ......"Aone" is fine, then.

Aomai: You must know when to give up, sis.

Aone: You're right, Aomai.

Aomai: A-O-M-A-I.

Aone: ...Hey. I'm making fun of you. You know that?

Aomai: But it's cute.

Aone: O-okay...that's good.

Aomai: A-O-M-A-I.

...I'm relieved. The sisters are on good terms.

Aone: What is it?

Sasamaru: Ah, no...it's nothing.

Aone: What's that about? Don't tell me, are you standing your ground now?

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Aone: I'm saying that you don't appear to be sorry.

Sasamaru: I did nothing to be sorry about.

Aone: In short, you're standing your ground.

Sasamaru: I'm not.

Aone: And that's what he's saying. What about you, Kumigami-san?

Hiyo: Eh.

Aomai: How about it, Hiyokel?

Aone: Hey, {\i1}Kiyo{\i0}. Stop calling her that.

Aomai: How about it, {\i1}Kumigami-san?{\i0}

Hiyo: Uh...ugh...

Again.
Again, Hiyo's eyes are...

Aone: She's saying that there's the possibility that...you two, Sasayan and Kumigami-san...

Sasamaru: Hiyo has nothing to do with it!

Aone: So, you're admitting you did it?

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

What does she mean?
Does she think that I didn't do it?

Aone: And what do you have to say, Kumigami-san?

Hiyo: Ugh...ah...

Aone: This is what I want to know. Hey, Kumiga...

Hiyo: Nngh!

At this moment, Hiyo...

...suddenly runs away.

Sasamaru: ...

It's the first time I see Hiyo like this. I'm astonished.

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Those eyes...

Sasamaru: (Hiyo's eyes were...)

I remember seeing those eyes somewhere.

But where in the world...

Hiyo: Why did you save me?

...Eh?

Sasamaru: (That just now was...)

I won't forget my days with them.
I'll never forget the days we spent together as the "Four Noble Ones."

But there are times when my awareness is uncertain.

Those dark days...

The events that happened back then weren't reflected in my eyes, like events that happened in a pitch dark place.

And since I didn't perceive it, I don't remember.

Those days before the light came.

For me, they are extremely fragmented.

Hiyo: Uh...uh...

I ran away.

Hiyo: uh...uuh...

Wholeheartedly wanting to run away from there, my legs moved.

Hiyo: uh...uuuh...

I'm relieved.
Now, my heart is filled with a liberating reassurance.

Despite this...

Despite feeling deep in my heart a complete peace from leaving that place...
my tears aren't stopping.

Hiyo: uuh...!

He was there.

And I even know the environment surrounding him...
but I ran away.

I ran by myself.

Hiyo: uuuuuhh...!

I left him and ran away.
This fact is punishing me.

I knew it. I'm just pretty and nothing else.

In a time like this, I left him alone.
It's at a time like this that I must lend him my strength, but...

I said, "I'll always be by your side," thrust aside his consideration, imposed my selfishness, and, in the end, couldn't bear it and ran away.

"They will look even at you with hate if you stay with me."
He probably thinks this is the reason I ran away.

It's inevitable he thinks like this.
I chose an action that makes him think like this.

Hiyo: uh, uh...

But he won't be mad.

He's probably consenting with "it's inevitable in this situation," and won't criticize me with "she betrayed me" or "I misjudged her."

I'm sad by this.

The tears aren't stopping because I know this.

I ran away while aware of this.

Hiyo: (What a...disgusting woman.)

I can't win against this terror.

Unable to win against the "fear," I jumped out of that place as if something snapped.

Hiyo: (It's as if...)

It's as if I "ran away while fully aware I won't be criticized."

An act like I'm taking advantage of this trust and even trampling on it.

Hiyo: uuh...

"Blue sisters."
This is how he called the blue team female students.

From the day I enrolled in this school until now, I've never made eye contact with those sisters.

I had many chances to look at them.
But I never did.

Aone: Good afternoon, Kumigami-san.

She had often called out to me, but I always left the place before even starting the conversation.

To begin with, I wonder if I can call it...
a "conversation."

Aone: ...And that's my point. Hey, Kumigami-san. What do you think?

Hiyo: ...

Aone: Kumigami-san?

Hiyo: Y-yes.

Aone: ...

Hiyo: ...

Aone: ...Never changing, eh.

I wonder until when I'll stay imprisoned by those days.

Aomai: ...

Hiyo: Ah...

Aomai: Hiyokel.

Hiyo: ...

Aomai: Hiyokel.

Hiyo: ......h......t?

Aomai: I can't hear you.

Hiyo: What...is it?

Aomai: Why did you run away?

Hiyo: Uh...

Aomai: Hey. Why did you?

Hiyo: I-I didn't...run...

Aomai: Liar. You did run away.

Hiyo: ...

Aomai: But why? That hurts, you know?

Hiyo: I...I'm sorry.

Aomai: Apologize better.

Hiyo: ...

Aomai: Hey. better. With your whole heart.

Hiyo: I'm...sorry.

Aomai: I can't hear you.

It's useless.

Aomai: Hey. Why do you do that?

Hiyo: (I'm scared.)

The trembling isn't stopping.

Aomai: Hey, Hiyokel.

Hiyo: Nnhh!

I'm so scared, so scared that I can't help it.

Those "eyes" of Hiyo.

She only shows those eyes when she's with the blue sisters.

I remember...
those eyes.

As if drifting in the faded consciousness...
inside the memories melted in the darkness.

Sasamaru: (Where...was it?)

I'm sure I have seen those eyes of hers.

Somewhere...

Aone: Where did she run off to?

Waving her head, Aone's voice surprises me.

Aone: And you.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: W-what?

I'm staring at Aone after reacting to her voice and turning over.

For some reason, there's a strangely nostalgic sensation here.

And then, the door of memories suddenly opens with a clank.

Sasamaru: (...Of course.)

I remember.

The first time I met her wasn't at this school.

Sasamaru: You're the...when we were kids...

Aone: ...Huh?

Sasamaru: That's right, you're...

Aone: Eh, what? You remembered it now? You spent all this time without noticing it?

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: Wow...I'm a bit shocked.

Sasamaru: We were in the same class.

It's the older sister, "Shisoku Norika."
And her little sister, "Shisoku Kiyo."

The Shisoku sisters.

When I was young...
before becoming friends with Hiyo...
and also with Araragi and Harutsuge.

Those sisters were in the same class.

We didn't play together much.
But it wasn't a distant relationship like "we were in the same class and nothing more."

But our relationship also wasn't delicate.

If there's one thing I can say for sure is that {\i1}I don't remember having a good impression of them.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Why didn't I notice this?)

The meaning of Hiyo's eyes.
In those days, I didn't know the meaning of those eyes.

Sasamaru: I get it. It's you.

These two...

They're the Shisoku sisters who bullied Hiyo when we were children!

Aone: How cruel. You should at least remember your old friends.

Sasamaru: Old friends...you say?

Aone: Oh, shouldn't you call a former classmate an old friend?

Sasamaru: ...You two...don't tell me you're again...

Aone: We're not children anymore. We don't do that. How rude.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: Well, whatever. We're all adults here. Let's fairly and honestly compete at the Ayanashisai as good rivals, okay?

I wonder if this is sarcasm toward me.

Sasamaru: Yeah. Fairly and honestly.

Aone: Hmpf.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo.)

I run through the hallway in search of Hiyo.

What appears when I close my eyes are only my memories with everyone.

"The Four Noble Ones."

In the same way he said that this relationship is a "treasure," this is also an irreplaceable treasure for me.

We laugh.
We get angry.
We get sad.

Many feelings are there.

And everyone from the "Four Noble Ones" is always there.

No matter how far back I retrace, no matter how much I retrace, everyone's faces are there.

But...

...I stop this action when I remember {\i1}a certain period.{\i0}

I abandon the reminiscing itself.
I promptly turn my eyes away.

In my memories, there's a part I unconsciously avoid.

Everyone isn't in this part.
He too isn't.

What is there is just...
the feeling called fear.

?: Umm...

?: Eh?

?: The subject of that "punishment" is me.

?: Huh?

?: She is not me. She isn't me.

?: ...

?: I'm sorry. Sorry for talking with you.

But after that day...

...I can remember everything after that day.

In those days, I was filled with fear, but...

...these even stronger feelings placed a memory flag there.

And these feelings envelop me.

It was so scary I couldn't help it. I can't say that I can now look straight at it, but I can now remember it as if my eyes were half-open.

That's right.

I'm being protected by these feelings.

And he, the one who granted me these feelings, is now going through painful days.

I am rounding the back that I was always chasing.

Hiyo.

Kumigami Hiyo.

Courage.

Muster your courage.
Kumigami Hiyo!!

Hiyo: I was scared.

Aomai: Eh?

Hiyo: The reason you asked. It's because I was scared.

There is a reaction of unconsciously averting my eyes.
My body is reflexively receding.

This sensation toward these sisters is no longer logical. It has nested in my body in a way that I can't do anything about it.

Hiyo: (But...)

But there's something...

But there's something I must say.

If I'm unable to say this...

...I'll lose even my right for him to call us the "Four Noble Ones."

Hiyo: Yes, I ran away...no, I was running away.

Aomai: W...what?

I may not be able to walk beside him, but...

...I want at least to be his "friend."

As a person who spent childhood together...
I don't want to lose the right of the "Four Noble Ones" that he so treasures.

Hiyo: So, I won't run away anymore.

I'm scared.

Scared, scared, so scared I can't help it. But now...

...I must tell her, "now."

Aomai: ...But you're trembling.

Hiyo: Yes. You're scary, so scary I can't help it.

Aomai: Talk about rude.

Hiyo: I'm sorry. But I can't help it. ...Yes, I can't help it.

Aomai: You can't help it? That's just an excuse.

Hiyo: Yes. {\i1}An excuse exactly as the one you used.{\i0}

Aomai: ...Huh?

Hiyo: I'm scared of you. That's why my body is trembling. I can't do anything about this.

Or maybe not.

Hiyo: But I can.

Hiyo: This is out of my own convenience. I must not push it onto you.

I can tell my body is trembling.
My uncontrollable feelings well up just by exchanging words with her like this.

An almost bursting...
chill.

Hiyo: (I'm scared.)

Don't lose.
Bite your lips.
Crush your heart's pain with the body's.

Hiyo: It's the same as becoming defiant with "it's logical I'll bother someone when I'm ill."

Aomai: ...

Hiyo: But you said that and interfered with another class.

Hiyo: Saying, "I can't help it."

Aomai: ...Your point?

Hiyo: It's as I said. If you still don't understand what I want to say, then it's useless to keep talking.

Aomai: What now? You impertinent. You make me sick.

Hiyo: Then, please feel sick. I've always...

That's right.

Hiyo: I've always hated you. I'm feeling relieved now.

Aomai: ...What?

Her expression changes.
It makes me feel these frozen feelings again.

I'm scared.

These simple but unwavering feelings.
These true feelings aching deep in my chest are creeping inside me like a nasty worm.

But...

...looking back upon myself running away...

...and thinking about him...

Hiyo: I said I hate you!

A voice strong enough to surprise even me runs up my throat.

Yes, I...

{\i1}...I am angry.{\i0}

Hiyo: I hate you, you irresponsible.

I'm angry at the girl who laid the blame on him with a calm face.

Now, I'm finally able to speak out my feelings.

Hiyo: You're just a coward who doesn't take responsibility for what you do.

Aomai: ...Hmmm.

Aomai: And? So what?

Hiyo: It might be something inconsequential to you. I don't think you'll change just because I said that.

Hiyo: But this is important to me. Very, very important.

That's right.

This has a very strong meaning for me at the moment that I can say this while looking in her eyes.

Aomai: The blue team will win anyway. What meaning is there?

Hiyo: Oh. Is "blue" really so amazing?

Aomai: Of course.

Aone: The blue sea. The splendid and magnificent mother of all life is blue. The same as the sky.

Her voice tone is probably from mimicking her sister.

I'm able to...

...listen to these words very clearly.

Hiyo: Oh, don't tell me...are you saying that {\i1}the sea is blue?{\i0}

Aomai: Eh?

Hiyo: In the first place, the sky appears blue because the sunlight scatters at the atmosphere. It's due to the "Rayleigh scattering." The short-wavelength blue light scatters easier, and the scattered light makes the sky appear blue.

Aomai: I-I know that. It's the same principle in which the sea appears blue. Light reflection. The blue light reflects more irregularly than other colors.

Hiyo: It's often misunderstood like that.

Aomai: Eh?

Hiyo: The sea has water. In short, the H2O itself absorbs the red light, making the passing light appear blue.

Hiyo: Therefore, the sea can't maintain the blue color without light. If there's no light, the sea wouldn't have any color in the first place.

Aomai: Ngh.

Hiyo: The sea you praise so much is in fact colorless and transparent.

Aomai: Y-you impertinent. Impertinent.

Hiyo: Yes. I'm impertinent.

Aomai: And what? Are you his girlfriend?

Hiyo: Huh?

Girlfriend?

Hiyo: I'm not...but...

I wonder why she's asking this.

At this moment, something prickles deep inside me.

Aomai: Then, what? You're friends? You're comrades? That's why you're saying that?

Hiyo: ...

Aomai: Listen, me and sis are "sisters." Do you think you can oppose this relationship with friends or comrades?

...Oppose?
I wonder what she's saying.

Aomai: Look, you can't talk back. But of course. Nothing in this world is as important as the bond between me and sis.

Hiyo: ...

She...

She only thinks about herself.

She can only measure things with her as the center of the world.

And she's probably desperate.

Desperate to protect the place she belongs to.

Hiyo: (She's clinging.)

...The same as myself.

Hiyo: (Then...)

Then...
in this arena of feelings' strength, I won't lose.

My feelings for him will never lose to the feelings she has for her sister.

I'll never yield this.

Hiyo: It appears I have no more words to say to you.

Aomai: Exactly, exactly. The bond between me and sis is always...

Hiyo: So, I'll throw my words.

Aomai: ...Eh?

Hiyo: In case you trample on his feelings any further...

Hiyo: ...I will make you pay.

Aomai: ...

Hiyo: Here and now, I'll clearly say this.

Aomai: W-what now? You're just Hiyokel.

Hiyo: I will make you pay. I, Kumigami Hiyo, with my whole body and soul, will make you pay.

Aomai: ...

At this moment, Shisoku Kiyo is faltering.

Hiyo: Do you understand?

I am glaring at her.
Glaring at her for the first time in my life.

Aomai: Ugh.

With an overpowered expression, she...

Aomai: Hiyokel. You'll regret this.

Leaving these parting remarks, she leaves the place.

Hiyo: (Hehe.)

I could say it.

I was able...
to say it, to tell her this.

Hiyo: (I did it.)

Yes, if the sea is colorless because of the light, then the red, too, is colorless.

Everything in the universe has color because light exists.
Despite this, I was able to brazenly declare that.

Hiyo: (I did it.)

After realizing this, I feel my shoulders relaxing.

Perhaps because of the surging relief, tears are overflowing at the outer corner of my eyes.

Sasamaru: Hiyo!!

I found her.

Hiyo: Oh, honey.

After turning over, she's with the same smile as always.

Sasamaru: ...

Her eyes are red.

She seemed to be rubbing her eyes before turning over.

For one moment after arriving here, I saw Aomai running toward the inner part of the hallway.

Hiyo: I'm sorry for my behavior earlier.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: For suddenly running away.

Sasamaru: Ah, don't mind.

I'm not worried about that.

Sasamaru: Did Aomai...do something?

Hiyo: ...

What happened here?

I'm sure the crying Hiyo...
and Aomai a moment ago aren't a coincidence.

Aomai chased Hiyo and...
quarreled with her about something.

But now, she's worrying about me.
While feeling guilty from the bottom of my heart, I'm worried with "I wonder if Aomai said something cruel to Hiyo."

It's the usual Hiyo.
The usual Hiyo from whom I must learn.

These eyes aren't the ones she had in front of the blue sisters.

Sasamaru: ...

I don't know exactly what happened.

But...

Sasamaru: (She's strong.)

She's very strong, gentle, and a splendid woman.

This is the only definite point I'm sensing.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

I take her hand.

Hiyo: ...Honey?

Staring in puzzlement, she's trembling her hand.

Trembling, and also firm with the shape of a fist...as if it hardened after strongly grasping something.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo.)

I slowly, very slowly, pull out each finger one by one.

I then envelop her hand with my palm.

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: Sorry, I didn't notice it.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I remembered.

After these words, she guesses what I'm trying to say.

Hiyo: Honey, you don't have to apologize.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Hiyo: No, I'm the one who should apologize.

Sasamaru: But it's all right now.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: I'll protect you. Whatever happens, I'll protect you no matter what.

Hiyo: ...

I wonder how much pain she felt because I didn't notice.

I sure am thickheaded.
Just like Harutsuge pointed out in the past, even I am irritated by my thickheadedness.

I didn't even realize my dear friend was in pain.
Despite she always worrying about me.

I can't help but feel irritated at myself.

Sasamaru: I'll absolutely protect you. I swear.

That's why today I use the word "absolutely."

Because this word is a truly unreliable one.

This word that means "at all times" and "whatever happens" must never be used lightly.

A word with this much weight you use only once or twice in your whole life.
It's frequently heard on the street, though.

That's why those who speak this word aren't worthy of trust.

Sasamaru: Absolutely.

But for me, this is exactly why I must use this word now.

In order to repay...
her strength and also her kindness.

Hiyo: ...

Then, Hiyo's eyes...

What she should have wiped a moment ago is overflowing.

Hiyo: ...uh, eh...

Her shivering lips and her exhausted expression.

It is a reaction unthinkable from her, always calm and composed.

Hiyo: I was scared!

I hug her tightly.

I hug her very, very tightly.

Hiyo: It was so scared! So scared!

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: ...uh, uuh...

Sasamaru: It's all right. It's fine now.

Hiyo: waahh...waaahhh...

Sasamaru: I'm a fake "bamboo" but...I'll project you.

Sasamaru: Absolutely! I'll project you!

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Absolutely!!

Hiyo: ...Yes...

While feeling her hands around my back strongly grasping my clothes...

...I promise.

//subchapter
Violence Incident
October 5 (Monday)
With You, Here and Now,

//text on screen
Yes.

In the past, he talked politely.

Whatever I spoke to him, that was his only reply.

In those days, I was happy.

"It's similar."
"It's the same as me."
I thought this.
I was innocently happy.

Since I was little, I was trained not to forget my politeness.

It is good manners toward others.
And, at the same time, the household's inborn weight.

This formality and education are the "noble lady education" as to "not behave shamefully as someone from the Kumigami household."

This is why it was natural to me.

Therefore, it didn't mean anything more, didn't signify anything less, and no ulterior motive.
Now, it's like second nature.

But he was different.
He was different.

I wonder how much time was necessary until I realized this.

{\i1}This{\i0} aspect of him...
was at the extreme of a warped love I was unable to understand at the time.

Sasamaru: Hmm? What's wrong?

Hiyo: Ah, it's nothing.

I think I was unconsciously staring at his face.

I avert my eyes in order to hide my blushing cheeks and resume the work.

The situation hasn't changed a bit.

In the end, we still won't be in time for the Ayanashisai like this.

Even so, if there's one thing that's changed...

...it's the fact that honey stopped saying, "I'll cause you trouble if you stay beside me."

He's accepting the fact I'm beside him as if it was natural.

For me, this pleases me more than anything.

Sasamaru: I'll protect you. Whatever happens, I'll protect you no matter what.

I spontaneously break into a smile.

Hiyo: (But...)

Sasamaru: I'm a fake "bamboo" but...I'll project you.

That's why it's meaningless if I become a burden.

I don't want to be a woman who takes advantage of his good will.

"Fake," he said.
"Fake bamboo," he said.

I'm aware of this.
These are words he lets out when he's faint of heart.

In short, this conveys how much he treasures the relationship of the "Four Noble Ones."

And also shows how impatient and anxious he is now.

Hiyo: (Ngh.)

This is why I'm filled with feelings of shame.

Despite standing beside him, this reality where I'm not supporting him is thrust at me.

Hiyo: (Suu...{\i1}Sasa{\i0}maru...)

At that time, I was happy for discovering a common trait between us and told everyone about it.

At that time, I'd never have thought this matter would keep affecting him in the distant future.
But it was a common feature I discovered in our names.

I am the "chrysanthemum."
Araragi-san is the "orchid."
Harutsuge-san is the "plum blossom."

And...

The fact that I said "bamboo grass" in the place of "bamboo" is binding him now.

No, I should say "still."

I sometimes catch glimpses of his real feelings in his complaints.

It's a little different from self-deprecating or degrading oneself.
A part deep within himself, as if it was grabbing his hair and forcefully pulling him back while he's trying to walk forward.

That's why I say this.

As if naturally constructing the conversation while I'm at it.

Hiyo: "{\i1}Take{\i0}" is bamboo.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: "{\i1}Take{\i0}" is called bamboo in English, isn't it?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

An unchanging situation. A workplace governed by silence.

Even so, it has been easier to talk, with me beside him.

Hiyo: But bamboo grass is also called "sasa" in the West. This is simply because bamboo grass is recognized as a Japanese plant.

He, who likes the Japanese style.
And also he who has the name of a Japanese plant.

That's why I put my heart in saying this.
With my best smile.

Hiyo: "Sasa" is a really nice word.

Please believe...
that there's at least one person right here who believes this with her whole heart.

Hiyo: "Sasa" is a really nice word.

Hiyo is always seeing through me.

I'm envious of her.

Envious of this splendid woman who has many things that I don't.

I want to become someone who can be considerate like her.
To learn from her and get even a little closer.

Sasamaru: Yeah, thanks.

But I wonder if my reply's voice tone was somewhat hypocritical.

Sasa.
My name.

My name was something that was decided arbitrarily.

This isn't a joke, modesty, nor a metaphor.
It is so true that when someone asks, "what's the origin of your name?" my only answer is "intuition."

I think that bothersome and annoying people often call others with "hey" or "you there" without calling by the name.

So, there are also times when "this itself becomes the name."

{\i1}Sasa meaning small.{\i0}

There are other ways of writing it, such as sasa meaning {\i1}trivial{\i0} or sasa meaning {\i1}petty{\i0}, but they all have the same meaning.

"Sasa" means "small" or "little."

So, a small Japanese chestnut is called "Sasakuri." The undeveloped voice of an infant Japanese nightingale is called "Sasanaki."

And "Sasa"...
can also be written as {\i1}"small bamboo."{\i0}

Literally, a small bamboo.
In short, a "bamboo grass."

Bamboo grass can also be written as small bamboo. Conversely, sasakuri and sasanaki can also be written with the character for 'bamboo grass' instead of 'small'.

A {\i1}small bamboo{\i0} is a bamboo grass, a sasa.

That's why my name has the character for "bamboo grass."

But this was all added later.

"Sasa."
In those days, I walked awkwardly after being called this.
And was made to do errands.

"Sasa."
In those days, I made haste after being called this.
Because I knew it'd hurt if I was late.

"Sasa."
I appeared there before being called.
When I thought it wouldn't hurt anymore, it still hurt regardless.

"Sasa."
I appeared there before being called.
It still hurt, but it was better than hurting several times.

"Sasa."
I was called this many times, but I didn't speak much.
Back then, I only said, "yes."

"Sasa."
I got used to the pain after being called this.
It hurt, but it always hurt.

"Sasa."
Yes.
Yes.

Hiyo: .........ey.

Hiyo: ...on...ey.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: What's the matter?

Sasamaru: Ah...no, sorry.

Hiyo: ...

Looking at me, Hiyo's gaze is tinged with a shadow.

Hiyo: Y-you must be tired, honey.

But she makes a smile as to not be noticed and gently calls out to me.

I feel regretful for her consideration.

Since that incident, I'm sure the environment surrounding me is painful for her heart.

Hiyo: I'll finish today's work. Honey, please return to the dormitory.

I'm sure she hesitates to say because...

..."I'm sorry for not seeing you off while you're in bad shape."
And also "thinking about his personality, it'd be more useful if I worked on the project." These ideas of her clashed, and she hesitates for one moment.

Sasamaru: (What on earth am I doing?)

Of course Hiyo will be worried if I make an odd face here.

I slap both my cheeks, scolding my worthless self.

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: Sorry. I was in deep tho...no, sorry. I'm all right now.

That wasn't a deep thought.

It was just an unimportant wave closing in.

My loose mind called in that darkness.

Hiyo: Don't push yourself too hard.

Sasamaru: I'm not pushing myself too hard.

At least not more than Hiyo.

That's why I must not show a gloomy face as a result of something I evoked.

Even after all that, Hiyo is beside me like it was natural. She's the last person I must make worry.

There was a boy carrying a book.

That was my one and only belonging.

Because I had to be there.
If I spaced out without doing anything, I'd be punched with "the hell you looking at!?"

So, in those days, I would read a book.
That one and only book.

It was a book my father threw at me...
when he was curiously in a good mood after returning home reeking of alcohol as always.

That book that hit my head was very hard and hurt very much, but, after that day, I intently kept reading it.
I kept reading because I had nothing else to do.

That worn-out book had a strange smell. When I tried sniffing, it had the smell of raw garbage, but I didn't mind and kept reading.

I had nothing else to do.
When I was waiting to be called, I kept reading it the whole time.

It was after that when I found out about the meaning of my name.

"Sasa" means "small" or "little."

Originally, it was simply the word for "narrow" overlapped.
Looking back, it wasn't a book to be read by someone of my age at the time.

But that was the only thing I had.
Even if I didn't understand it, even if I couldn't read the characters, I would memorize them after reading countless and countless times.

Children have a great imagination. They can compensate for what they don't understand with it.
I was able to read the words I learned at school, little by little. I was unraveling the meaning of the sentences I remembered.

That was my pastime.
That was my one and only pastime.

What I learned was countless knowledge that wasn't helpful in everyday life.

While everyone was engrossed in television, manga, and games, I was always staring at that book.

Eventually, when I had drilled inside my head all the meanings written there...

When I had memorized all the lines, and every time I read, it was like spotting the difference between my memories and what was written...

...he threw another book at me.

It appears he realized that I "keep quiet when I had a book."
That book also had a strange smell, but I intently kept reading it.

When I close my eyes and try to reminisce about the past, it's all pitch dark.

There's no light.
The sun has risen.
There's also electric light.
But there's no illumination nor light.

In those days, this was my every day.

My every day.
My normal.

I don't remember talking to anyone at school.
But that was normal. I wouldn't be allowed to anyway.

I am "Sasa."

The "small" and "little" me is different from everyone else.

I'm a bad kid.

I get punched because I'm a bad kid.
That's what my father said.

He said that many times while punching me. Even I will remember it.

Sasa, a bad kid, must not become friends with other kids.

It'll be a bother.
It'll make them feel sick.

My father punched me to discipline the bad kid, who is me.

I'm sorry for always doing something to make you punch me.

Yes.
Yes.
I remember.
I'm grateful just to be here.

Yes.
Yes.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Sorry for my faltering speech.

I'll speak politely.
I'll learn how to speak politely.
Fathe...
No, dear father.

Yes.
Yes.
I understand.
It's preposterous for me to express my opinion.

"Yes."
I don't need any other words.

Yes. Me, a bad kid, must always obey what others decide.

There's darkness.

There's no light.
The sun has risen.
There's also electric light.
But there's no illumination nor light.

It's bright only around me.

At school.
Everyone is different from me.
Everyone's a "good kid."

There, it's very bright. So dazzling that I feel dizzy.

Sparkling and shining white.

Me, a bad kid, can never go there.

I can only look enviously in silence while yearning for that white sparkle.

Inside me, the yearning for the white sparkle got bigger every time my father called me a "bad kid."

It expanded more and more every time he made me realize the "difference."

This place is very dark.

Very, very dark.
So dark that I can't see well.

That's why there is something very radiant.

Always so radiant that it is always burned into my eyes.

After returning home, after being alone, that scenery comes to mind simply by closing my eyes.

As if it was engraved on the inner part of my eyelids.

The light rising to the surface.

Uncertain if it's visible or not, I see it passing through my vague field of vision. It's turning into a dim light.

But still, it's radiant.

Something everyone has.
Something we naturally have.

"It" is there beside someone, and "it" is also there beside someone else.

Someone is "it" with someone, and also is "it" with someone else.

Somehow stretching this natural "ring."
I feel "it" as something really natural.

But I never had "it."

...Ah, it's so radiant.

I reflexively extend my hand.

But I realize I won't reach it no matter how much I extend it, and I draw back my hand.

I didn't understand.

Why was "she" similar to me?

She wasn't a bad kid like me, but why was she "criticized for everything she did"?

I didn't understand.
Why did she "irritate everyone just by standing there"?

Perhaps I had infected her simply by being here.

Then, it wasn't her.
I was the "bad kid" and not her.

I said that she's not it.

Sasamaru: Umm...

That feeling took form, becoming words that slipped off my throat.

Aone: Eh?

She was surprised...
by the fact that I, who normally didn't talk, suddenly spoke.

I was also surprised.
But that wasn't a mistake.
The one who "should be that" was me and not "her."

Sasamaru: The subject of that "punishment" is me.

Aone: Huh?

Sasamaru: She is {\i1}not me. She isn't me.{\i0}

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Sorry for talking with you.

She asked me, "why?"

Sasamaru: Eh?

She asked me, "why did you save me?"

Saved?
What does she mean?

Sasamaru: I corrected her because she was mistaken.

Thinking there must not be a misunderstanding, I told her this

Then, she made a curious face with "misunderstanding?"

Sasamaru: Yes, I'm sorry. She mistook the "bad kid."

She repeated the same expression at my words.

Seems the words of a "bad kid" like me didn't get across to a "good kid."
I wasn't disappointed.

Rather, I was relieved.
Look, my words didn't get across because she was a "good kid."
That was the proof.

I was relieved.
So, it was just a misunderstanding.

The "bad kid" was just me.

Her name is Kumigami Hiyo.

I knew that.
I'd never talked to her, but I had memorized everyone's names.

Sasamaru: Kumigami-san. You are not a bad kid.

Sorry for being mistaken with me.

A "white" person must never, ever be confused with a "black" one like me.

Hiyo: I'm home!

Girl: Welcome back, lady Hiyo.

In those days, my daily routine after returning from school was to tell her everything that happened that day.

She worked at that mansion as my mediator since I was very little.

I told her everything, even things I didn't tell other people.

My father was always busy, and I rarely saw him.
I had only seen my late mother in portraits.

So, my companion when I was small was her.

I trusted her very much, and I think she too looked at me as more than the daughter of her employer.

But...

Hiyo: Umm...

Girl: Yes?

Hiyo: Umm...

But I hadn't spoken about the poor treatment I received at class.

Girl: What is it, my lady?

I tried telling her several times.

But every time...

Hiyo: It's nothing! Today, school was so much fun!

Girl: That's very good.

I thought she'd make a sad face and didn't tell her.

"I'm sure it's only for now."
"We'll soon become friends."
"So, I don't have to tell her." This is what I told myself.

And like this, the days passed.

But that day was different.

Hiyo: I'm home!

Girl: Welcome back, lady Hiyo.

She was serving me like always.

But after seeing my expression, she asked this.

Girl: Did something good happen, my lady?

In those days, I wasn't able to hide my feelings.
My feelings immediately appeared in my expression and behavior.

You can just call it the innocence of a child, but...
still, my chest tightened when I thought that she'd get sad.

When returning home, I always kept telling myself, "today was so much fun."

Hiyo: H-how do you know?

Girl: You seem happier than usual.

And I was sure I was doing my best about that in my own way.

Even that day, when really happy things happened, it should had been the same.

But she easily saw through me.

I wonder if that meant she was really caring for me.

Or perhaps myself, younger than my actual age, simply believed that "I could do it."

It was probably both.
I want to think this.

Even looking at this with partiality, I recognize that my mental age was younger than others at the time. This is a bit embarrassing.

Hiyo: Yes! You see, there was...

After her words, I told her what happened that day as if I was jumping with joy.

The classmate boy who saved me.

His heroic tales.

But...

...to "save" me means that I "encountered some sort of harm."

So, I hesitated but still told her, while hiding only this part.

In those days, I was really mentally young. Even as a flattery, I can't say I was living while using my head.

It was probably a coincidence. The story was very coherent, and she didn't act suspicious at all.

Girl: Oh. He's a lovely boy, isn't he?

Hiyo: Yup!

After I told her from start to finish, she smiled as if the events had happened to her.

I was so happy. I spoke with excitement about "him" many, many times, but...

Hiyo: But...

The moment I calmed down, something that was bothering me gained strength.

Hiyo: But I don't remember him.

Girl: You don't remember?

Hiyo: Yup. I don't know him.

Girl: He's your classmate, isn't he?

Hiyo: I only know his name.

Girl: Aah...

Hiyo: He's in the same class, but I don't know him.

It was very shocking.

We didn't just enroll nor changed classes at the start of the year.

Despite that, I didn't even remember his face.

Hiyo: I'm sowwy.

I apologized to no one in particular.

I thought it was a "bad thing."
"A very rude thing."

Girl: But you got to know him, didn't you? You can simply become friends with him now.

Hiyo: But...

Girl: ...

Girl: My lady, you are thinking that...you did a "bad thing," correct?

Hiyo: Yup.

Girl: There's no point in worrying, then. You should simply apologize to him tomorrow.

Hiyo: That's right!

I thought her words had opened the road before me.

In those days, her advice had saved me many times.

Hiyo: I'll apologize! Apologize!

Girl: Yes. With those feelings, I'm sure it'll be fine.

Hiyo: Yup!

But the next day, the misunderstanding wasn't corrected.

Again, I explained their misunderstanding.

I could identify a "good kid" because I knew I was a "bad kid."

Kumigami-san was not.
She was a "good kid" like you.

She was not a subject of grabbing the hair like that.

But they didn't understand.

I didn't know why they replied with: "Aah. Hiyokel likes this."

After class, Kumigami-san again came over to me.

I didn't know why she was speaking to someone like me, but...
I was happy.

I knew that feeling was wrong, but...

Hiyo: Umm, err, well...

Hiyo: ...It's nothing.

That day, Kumigami-san's behavior was strange.

She often peeked at me as if examining my face.
I thought: "There's nothing in me for her to worry. There must be another reason."

After peeking for a while, she started speaking something but stopped.

Sasamaru: (Ah, of course.)

I soon discovered the answer.

Sasamaru: I am very sorry.

Why didn't I notice this?
She didn't want to be together with me any longer.

Why couldn't I immediately guess something so obvious?

I wonder if I forgot something so crucial because of the happiness from being talked to.

Sasamaru: Then, excuse me.

I didn't need to speak out the reason.
Father had given me punishment several times for speaking out something obvious.

Hiyo: Y-you're going home?

Aah, she was so kind.
She was speaking this, as if she was disappointed.

It was because she was like that that I must not stay there even one second longer.

Sasamaru: (Thank you very much.)

Despite turning around, I expressed my gratitude many, many times inside my head.

She'd get sullied if someone like me thanked her.

But I won't forget...
about her, who talked for so long with me.

Hiyo: W-wait!

Kumigami-san grabbed my clothes.

I shook off her hand.
An instantaneous event.

Because her beautiful hand would get dirty.

Hiyo: Uuhh...

For one instant, Kumigami-san had an expression about to cry, but...
she was briskly rubbing the outer corner of her eyes.

Hiyo: I-I'm sowwy. I surprised you, didn't I?

She said that and opened her mouth, as if resolving herself.

Hiyo: ...I didn't know.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: I didn't know about you. And we're in the same class.

Sasamaru: ...

I didn't know why she was saying that.
I thought it was not surprising.

I was always "such a thing." It was natural that I be like that. I didn't know why Kumigami-san was feeling sorry.

Hiyo: U...umm...

Sasamaru: Yes?

Hiyo: ...Soww...

Sasamaru: ...?

Hiyo: ...Sow...

Sasamaru: ...Yes?

Hiyo: ...S...

Sasamaru: Yes.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...

...Ah, we were talking so much like that.

While thinking that that feeling of "happiness" welling up from deep inside my chest...
was something wrong, I thoroughly savored it.

Hiyo: ...I'm home.

Girl: Oh, my lady. What's the matter?

I returned home downhearted. Worried, she called out to me.

Hiyo: ...I'm sowwy.

Girl: Weren't you able to apologize to him?

I quickly nodded.

I remember well my feelings at that time.
I was so deplorable that there was nothing I could do.

Then, she asked what had happened.
I told everything in my own words, but there wasn't much to tell in the first place.

I tried to apologize.
But I was unable to.
That's all there was to it.

But she made the same smile after listening to my story.

Girl: It's all right. He has forgiven you.

Hiyo: Eh?

I opened my round eyes wide at those words.

Girl: Because he was never angry to begin with.

Hiyo: Is that true!?

Although surprised by those words, I said that in panic.

Hiyo: But it's rude. I'm rude.

Girl: I think he doesn't feel that way about you.

Hiyo: But...

Girl: My lady, are you not satisfied?

Hiyo: ...Yup.

Girl: Then, you should simply take it back.

Hiyo: Take back?

Girl: Yes. You should simply do something that makes him happy.

Hiyo: Got it!

Selfishly, I discovered hope in her words.

Hiyo: I'll take back. Take back.

Jumping with joy, I imagined the next day.

But...

But I sure was weak.

I started crying after {\i1}any little thing.{\i0}

"So, we'll 'murahachibu' (leave out) Hiyokel."

After being told that, Hiyo was crying again that day.

"Murahachibu."
I knew its meaning.

But only the meaning. I didn't know why she was so.
From their chat, I had the impression that the ones misunderstanding were simply using a word they just learned.

Sasamaru: (I knew it. It is my fault.)

Because she talked to someone like me.
"I wonder if the misunderstanding became the truth."
I trembled after thinking this.

Hiyo: Ugh, ugh...

I-in any case, I thought that I must not let Kumigami-san cry like that.

The one who must cry after going through a painful event isn't her.

I was thinking this, but...
an even stronger feeling was overflowing from deep inside my body.

I didn't like it.
I didn't like seeing her cry.

That's why I spoke that.

Sasamaru: With murahachibu, there's still hope.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Do you know why murahachibu has the character for 8 and not 10?

She waved her head.

Sasamaru: Originally, murahachibu, which means to leave out, was a punishment given to people who broke the village's rules.

Hiyo: S-so...I'm a bad kid? I received punishment?

Then, I shook my head horizontally.
That was preposterous.

Sasamaru: In the Edo period, the villages had a rule for the villagers to cooperate with ten events: "coming-of-age," "marriage," "illness," "construction," "funeral," "fire," "flood damage," "travel," "childbirth," and "death anniversary."

Sasamaru: And among these, only "fire" and "funeral" were events for everyone, even the left out villagers, to participate in.

Sasamaru: So, the left out 8, murahachibu, is not 10. There's still 2 remaining. There's still a chance for you to become friends.

Hiyo: Really!?

Sasamaru: Yes. I'm sure of it.

After this, she stopped crying. I felt relieved.

But...
I couldn't be like that.

I gradually started becoming impatient.

I was supposed to gratify him but got cheered up instead.

Although I was feeling down, the young me returned home and, every time...

Hiyo: Hey, hey. We talked about this today!

Before I noticed, I was happily talking about "today's events" that were centered around him.

Girl: Oh my. That's very good.

And every time, she listened to me with a smile.

I became even happier and talked about him more and more.

Girl: Oh, he's very well-informed.

Her impression of him hit the mark.

After listening to me, she often said the word "well-informed."

That wasn't surprising, since she wasn't acquainted with him, and there was the bias from hearsay information, but...

At that time, I was in ecstasy for learning a good word for expressing his good points.

Hiyo: Yup! He's so "well-informed"!

"Well-informed."

"Suu-kun is well-informed."

In those days, I didn't know how my feelings were. I was excited by this word.

Hiyo: Suu-kun, you're so "well-informed."

A certain day, Kumigami-san said this.

At that time, I stared in puzzlement.

Because I remembered that the word "well-informed" is used in a conversation as a compliment.

I didn't know why she said that to me. I thought there was another meaning for this.

Then, Kumigami-san whispered.

Hiyo: Someday, I want to become like you, Suu-kun.

Because she said this...

Sasamaru: Please stop!!

...I unintentionally screamed.

Kumigami-san was surprised.

I was sorry.
But, well, I didn't understand.

You were a "good kid." Why did you want to become a "bad kid" like me?

Sasamaru: (I knew it. It is of no use.)

I must not do this.

The "black" would dye the "white."

If that continued, she'd become a "bad kid."

I returned home disappointed.

Girl: What happened, my lady?

Then, she asked me this, as always.

Hiyo: Umm.

I told her about that day's events.

Hiyo: ...Does he hate me?

After speaking this, tears were overflowing very fast.

"Does even he hate me?"
After thinking this, I suddenly felt very sad.

Girl: That's not true.

Hiyo: ...But...he got angry...

Girl: Let's see. He might have gotten angry.

Hiyo: Uuhh...

After those words, I couldn't stop the overflowing tears.

Girl: But to get angry is different from hating.

Hiyo: Eh?

Girl: Maybe he doesn't like being called that. That's why he spoke in a loud voice to you by mistake.

Girl: But this is no reason for him to hate you.

Hiyo: Really?

Girl: Oh. My lady, he's your hero, isn't he? Do you think such a person will hate you?

Hiyo: ...

Girl: You know many of his good points, right?

Hiyo: Yup! I know! A lot!

Girl: Then, it's all right. My lady, it's because he's like this that you started returning home with a splendid smile every day.

Hiyo: Eh?

She noticed...
that I always had a forced smile when I got home.

And also that this smile became real out of nowhere.

I was the only one thinking that I was tricking her.

After asking that, she opened up: "Since you didn't speak, I didn't want to ask you by force."

"My lady, as long as you don't say, it'll be fine."
"You are a strong person."

After looking at her guilty face after she told this, I realized she was this whole time in pain, worrying about me.

Then, I started crying more and more.

She noticed.
She had noticed me.

And I didn't notice...

...that, before I realized, I was happily accepting her welcome when I was happy, and sadly accepting it when I was sad, with my honest feelings at that time.

...that the "today's events" I kept telling her had become my after-class conversations with him.

...that, in those days, my every day had become different from before.

Hiyo: I'll speak "politely."

...That day, when I told this.

Several days had passed since I first met him.

Girl: "Politely"?

Hiyo: Yup.

A part that I didn't tell her, who only knows about him from me.

I was always, always bothered by it.
Bothered like an unpleasant feeling.

But I didn't understand the "true shape" of why I was bothered.

Perhaps I was avoiding telling her this.
Perhaps I was pretending to not notice, turning my eyes away.

But a child's mentality is simple. Once you look at it, you can't pretend not to notice it.

Hiyo: I can't talk "politely" very well.

Girl: Ah...he must be a very reliable person. I wonder if he's the son of a famous family.

At first, I was honestly happy.
"The same as me."

At that time, I couldn't speak "politely" very well, but...
even so, I was innocently happy, "we're the same," for having found a common point with him.

Hiyo: I hate talking politely.

But I started realizing.

His "politely" was different.

I could no longer pretend to not notice it.

Girl: My lady. But that's a...

Hiyo: I can't learn it because I'm dumb.

Because...

Hiyo: If that's polite, I don't want to learn it.

Because there was something about him that I couldn't consent to.

Hiyo: It's weird.

Girl: Weird?

Hiyo: Father said politely is "good manners," politely is "etiquette," but that's not it. That feels really weird.

Girl: ...

"Yes, it feels weird."

In those days, this is what I felt from his way of speaking.

No, it wasn't just from his way of speaking.
His attitude, demeanor, and stance toward others.

In those days, I couldn't tell it well. But now, I recognize it as a clear "artificiality."

It was polite but different from the one I was taught.

The speech was the same, but something was different.
It was fundamentally different.

It was something very "disgusting."

Hiyo: ...

A matter I couldn't consent to.

My childish mind connected the dots.

"I wonder if the fact he's like 'that' is caused by that 'disgusting' thing."
I started thinking this.

After that, I couldn't stop it anymore.

Hiyo: And Suu-kun did this...

A usual moment like always.

That time became something irreplaceable for me.

I was talking to her about him.

Girl: ...My lady.

Then, she suddenly said that.

Girl: You like him, don't you?

The moment she said that...

...I stared in puzzlement for one instant.

And then...
I felt my face becoming deep red.

Hiyo: L-like? Like, like?

Girl: Yes. My lady, I feel that you like him.

Hiyo: ...

I couldn't do anything about my deep red face becoming even redder.

My speech was already in strange Japanese, but that was the only way I could express that situation.

Hiyo: W-wh-what do I do!?

Girl: It's fine like that. That's a very lovely thing, my la...

Hiyo: What do I do!? I've fallen in love!!

I was too young to shout that, but...

I didn't understand what "love" was, but...

...it was like the feelings I had for him until then were given shape. I was confused by my feelings.

Something cozy, warm, and also throbbing.

If that was "love"...

Hiyo: W-w-wh-wha-w-wh-wh?

Girl: My lady. Calm down.

Hiyo: W-wh-wha-what do I...

Girl: You don't have to do anything, my lady.

Hiyo: But I l-like...

Girl: My lady, you really like him, don't you?

Hiyo: ...Y-yup.

Yes.

Even the young and immature me clearly knew the whereabouts of those feelings.

Girl: Then, you should simply treasure those feelings.

Hiyo: Treasure...the feelings.

Girl: Yes. My lady, those feelings will make you even more lovely than you're now.

Hiyo: ...I don't understand.

Girl: You don't have to understand now. But those treasured feelings will be for your sake. And also...

Hiyo: For the sake of...Suu-kun?

Girl: Yes.

Hiyo: ...

There was something gradually expanding inside my heart, like a flower blooming.

The hope of "for the sake of Suu-kun."

Because, despite hoping "for his sake," I was still receiving happiness from him.

Hiyo: Th-then...umm...

I spoke out about my worries.

Of course, I mean that "disgusting thing."

After pondering for a while, she said that.

Girl: Perhaps he doesn't have confidence.

Hiyo: Confidence?

I said that while tilting my head.

Hiyo: Confidence, err, like father?

Then, she suddenly covered her mouth and trembled her shoulders a little. Then, she blushed.

Girl: ...Yes. The master is filled with confidence. I think he's a splendid gentleman.

She eventually calmed down and said that.
Though, the smile in her mouth, different from usual, didn't completely fade.

But...
"confidence."

There was no doubt that this word sprouted inside me as a conviction.

Hiyo: He doesn't have "confidence."

Girl: Thinking like this, I feel that I understand him despite never having met him.

Hiyo: "Confidence."

"So, that 'disgusting thing' appears because he doesn't have confidence."
That was a dumb logical connection, but, for some reason, I could agree with it.

I should call that a conviction.

That wasn't logical like "if this is like this, then that is like that." It was really closer to intuition.

But because of that, something didn't quite fit.

Not having confidence.
That "disgusting thing."
All these...

...were connected to what "I couldn't consent"?

Hiyo: ...

In my own childish way, I earnestly started thinking about that.

Then, she proposed that to me.

Girl: Then, how about start by becoming friends?

Hiyo: Eh?

I didn't quite get those words.

Hiyo: But he's my friend. We're already friends.

I was worrying until a moment ago, but, after thinking "we're not friends," I suddenly felt sad. That means I was really a kid.

Girl: Of course you're friends.

She plainly said that.

I was more confused.

Girl: Sorry for saying this, but...

Girl: From what I hear, I'm sure he needs that word.

Hiyo: ...?

I was even more confused.

Girl: Try saying that to him. I'm sure you'll become even closer friends.

Hiyo: ...

"Become even closer friends."

Inside me, those became very promising words.

I thought.

I really, really thought. Very, very much.

I think that was the first time in my life that I used my head so much.

I "liked" him.

In those days, I thought that was the only thing moving me.

At that time, Kumigami-san imitated me considerably.

When talking to me, she started using the same words I used.

I felt ashamed for her to be imitating me, though.

That was the only possible answer. Because she simply used the words used in our previous chat.

Hiyo: "I made haste instead of waste"!

And again.

Hiyo: Hehe. The "waste" in "haste makes waste" doesn't mean "trash" or "garbage." It's means "mistake."

Hiyo: This means "slow and steady wins the race"!

My impatience wasn't subsiding.
I wondered if she would keep being dyed like that.

But for some reason, she was there together with me.
I was taken by this grateful happiness.

In those days, I'd get impatient with what to do.

Hiyo: Ah...that's right.

At that time, Kumigami-san suddenly spoke that.

Hiyo: U-umm. "Knowledge" is more fun if you "exhibit" it to someone.

Sasamaru: Eh?

What did she mean?
Knowledge is more fun if I exhibit to someone?

Sasamaru: (...Fun?)

I didn't understand well.

But for some reason...
for some reason, I felt that she said those words after thinking very, very much.

Hiyo: Y-you know so much, so much about things, and you don't show them to anyone. That's wasteful.

Sasamaru: Why is that?

Hiyo: People who "own" a lot of "knowledge" want to "exhibit" it to everyone!

People with a lot of knowledge want to exhibit it?

Hiyo: They act proud, like "I'm sooo smart" and "I'm sooo intelligent"!

Yes, there sure are people like that.

But that's when talking about everyone.
To begin with, I was excluded. And it was unthinkable to say that I had lots of knowledge.

And most importantly, I didn't know why she was saying that.

Because those words seemed like they were for my sake.
That couldn't be true.

I thought I had offended her and...

Sasamaru: Yes. I am very sorry.

...apologized before...

Hiyo: No, umm, I'm not angry.

...she made a distressed expression.

After I said that, she always reacted like that.

And every time, as expected, I felt guilty.

Hiyo: Umm.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Hiyo: Suu-kun, I think you should have more "confidence" in your "knowledge."

Sasamaru: Confidence?

Hiyo: Yup.

Kumigami-san looked straight into my eyes.

Hiyo: Suu-kun, you know much, much more than me, right?

Sasamaru: That's not...

Hiyo: I'm dumb, so, you might get angry when "compared" to me. But, you know a lot, right?

Her earnest words.

From her behavior of staring fixedly at me, I could tell her effort of desperately wanting to tell her idea.

Hiyo: So, Suu-kun. Have "confidence" in this.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Then, Suu-kun. You...

...I?

Hiyo: ...won't need to talk "politely."

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Hiyo: ...

After saying that, she hesitated.

Her big eyes were filled with tears, as if she'd start crying at any moment. Her lips were contracted as if she was enduring her frustration.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry. Kumigami-sa...

Hiyo: That!

Sasamaru: Yes?

Hiyo: Don't say sowwy.

I was surprised.
And, at the same time, I panicked.

"To cry is my duty."

I felt this every time I saw her cry, but...

I wonder if that was the first time I made her cry.

My father said, "it's fun to look at you crying like a baby," but I didn't have fun when I saw someone crying.

I wonder if that was because I was a "bad kid."

Sasamaru: S-stop crying. Please stop crying.

Despite knowing that, I became flustered and said those words for some reason.

"What do I do? What do I do?"

I should had left immediately, but...

Hiyo: ...Have "confidence."

Hiyo: Then, everyone will remember you, Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: People with much "confidence" are "noticed" by a lot of people. Like my father.

Hiyo: Suu-kun, your "knowledge" will be your "confidence."

Sasamaru: ...

What did...she say?

Hiyo: I'm flustlated.

Sasamaru: Frus...trated?

Hiyo: I'm flustlated.

The feeling that word represents appeared for the first time in my conversations with Kumigami-san.

Hiyo: I'm flustlated that everyone doesn't notice you, Suu-kun.

Hiyo: I can't "consent."

Sasamaru: Kumigami...san.

Hiyo: "Consent."

Why?
What the...
What on earth was she saying?

I was astonished.

Sasamaru: B-but I don't have...knowledge...

I thought I had to calm her down.

Sasamaru: Even if I were more well-informed than everyone, to show off is just...

And after I spoke this...

Hiyo: If you do nothing just because you shouldn't, who will remember you, Suu-kun!?

While crying...

Those words she spoke while crying.

I realized those were her real feelings.

Then, tears overflowed from my eyes.

Sasamaru: Uh...

Overflowing so much that I couldn't do anything.

Why?
To cry was my duty, but...
that was different from normal.
I didn't know, but it was different.

Why?
The reason the tears were falling were different from when I cried after my father punched me.

Why?
Why was she so...

Hiyo: Please be my friend.

Unbelievable words reached my ears.

Hiyo: I'll be the "first" one who remembers you, Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: So, please be my friend.

...Beyond my reach.

...What I could never obtain.

No matter how much I wished, I couldn't reach that "white."
No matter how much I rejected, I couldn't escape that "black."
So, I'd never reach it.

Sasamaru: Uuh...uh...

Despite this, the "white" extended its hand to me.
Holding it out with, "grab this hand."

Sasamaru: uh...

It would get dirty if I touched it, but...
I wanted to touch that hand.

I wanted to touch it so much.

Sasamaru: Is it...all right?

I asked that.

Although, I didn't have to ask to know the answer.

If I touch, you too will...

Hiyo: Can't I be your friend?

Sasamaru: Bu...but if I touch, you too will...

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: ...You'll get stained!

I couldn't bear it.
I said this.

What I had been hiding all that time...
and covering up.
I was happy.
I didn't want to lose those days.

But that couldn't happen.

I didn't want to be your friend if it was going to taint you.

Hiyo: Suu-kun, you idiot.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Hiyo: Suu-kun, what you're saying is too difficult. I don't get it, but...

Hiyo: But I know you're saying bad things.

Bad...things?

Hiyo: Suu-kun, I know you're {\i1}saying bad things about yourself.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Don't talk bad about my dear Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: ...

I didn't know what she was talking about.

I didn't know the meaning of her words.

But, for some reason, I thought this.

I thought, "what is a 'friend'?"

The white ones.
The "ring" forming around it.

What I was always, always yearning for.

Thinking about it, I was only yearning and didn't know the meaning of "friends."

Sasamaru: Friends...

Perhaps was {\i1}that{\i0}...
it?

Was that...that amazing feeling, "friends"?

Then, may I...
may I hold this hand?

Sasamaru: uuuhh...uh...

Why were the tears overflowing?
Why were they overflowing without any punishment?

Was that a punishment?

Was she giving me punishment?

Sasamaru: (Wrong! Wrong!)

This wasn't that.

Because that feeling...was so amazing...

Sasamaru: aah...ah...

...I couldn't stop it.

Sasamaru: WAAAAAAHHHH! WAAAAAAAAAAAHH!!

That day, I shed tears I didn't understand.

Many, many tears that I didn't understand overflowed.

...

...That day, I too...

...made friends.

White Team Male Student A: Hey.

I'm walking through a deserted hallway when a student calls out to me.

When I turn around, I see a male student from the white team.

Sasamaru: What?

There's no one around.
As if confirming this, the student signals me with his chin.

White Team Male Student A: Nobu-kun is calling you. Come with me.

Sasamaru: What does he want?

White Team Male Student A: He wants to talk about the Ayanashisai's sneaky maneuver.

That again...
Fine. I have no reason to run away.

The place he leads me to is the white team's classroom.

There is not a soul in the hallway, probably because almost no one passes here.

As if using this as a reason, the hallway is crowded with miscellaneous goods, probably the white team's belongings.

Nakarai: Hey, Suu-chan.

And there's Nakarai, together with the other white team's students.

Sasamaru: What do you want?

Nakarai: "What do you want?" my ass! The hell you did that for!?

Sasamaru: I haven't done anything.

Nakarai: Don't play dumb with me!!

Endure it.
I clench my fist.

They too have the pride of being a student from this school. He's simply saying this out of his feelings of not letting me off.

Endure it, Sasamaru.
You're used to enduring things.

Nakarai: Damn. You can't blame them for saying your whole class is conspiring.

Sasamaru: Wha...!

They're even saying that?
Because of me?

Sasamaru: You're wrong! The girls didn't do anything!

Nakarai: I wonder.

Sasamaru: It's true! They haven't done anything! Believe me!

Nakarai: So, you admit you did it?

Sasamaru: I...I...

Nakarai: Did you?

Sasamaru: I...didn't do it.

Nakarai: But {\i1}someone broke{\i0} the yellow team project. Meaning there's a culprit, right?

Sasamaru: W...well...

Nakarai: ...

Nakarai is looking at my eyes as if appraising me.

Then, out of nowhere...

Nakarai: Hey. Should we tell everyone you aren't the culprit?

...he says this.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Nakarai: The school fellas will stop fussing if we say this. What do you think?

Sasamaru: What...do you mean?

Nakarai: It's simple. This is an exchange.

Nakarai: An exchange?

Nakarai: You'll accept my conditions. In exchange, I'll clear away your suspicions. Well, I don't know if it'll really be cleared, but the school should stop talking about it.

Sasamaru: ...

Frankly speaking...

...for me, with my heart about to crumble down, this proposal sounds very attractive.

Nakarai: Our class here...is lacking beauties, as you see.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Nakarai: I'm saying there are no women.

Probably everyone from the white team is here, surrounding me.
There are seven men. Yes, as far as I can see, there are no female students in the white team.

Nakarai: Your class is so good. Like a harem.

Sasamaru: What...do you mean?

Nakarai: {\i1}This is what I mean.{\i0} You're a man too, you know this, right?

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

For one moment...

...a white urge...comes.

Sasamaru: Wh...what?

Nakarai: Stop teasing us. I'm saying the girls in your class are all delicious ones.

Sasamaru: ...

Nakarai: You know what I'm saying...right, Suu-chan?

Sasamaru: Urgh!

Suddenly, I'm about to throw up.
The running up gastric juice is burning my throat.

The overflowing tears blur my field of vision. My body is naturally bending like a bow.

Sasamaru: Agh...nngh...

Saliva is dripping from my lower lip.

Nakarai: Ah ha ha ha ha ha! The hell's with him!?

This is simply gastric acid reflux, like throwing alcohol into an empty stomach.
It's a light nausea.

But the byproduct called tears that's blurring my vision is not.

...No.

It's not blurring.
It's white.

At this moment, the sensation I'm feeling is, strangely, a "nostalgic" one.

White Team Male Student B: Err, Nobu-kun. Do you mean...

Nakarai: I'm saying to friendly share it. Don't worry, Suu-chan will make it good for us.

White Team Male Student C: Y-you serious?

Nakarai: What are you getting cold feet for? You wanna do it too, don't ya?

White Team Male Student B: Well, but...there's that Kashi girl...

Nakarai: Then, just make Suu-chan lure out the one easier to catch. Once we catch her...right? There's a ton of methods to pin her down.

Nakarai: Well, Kashi is nothing once I get serious. Nothing, but she's troublesome. Gotta make sure.

White Team Male Student B: Easier to catch...you mean Yumeno...right?

Nakarai: Huh? Aah...no, she's no good. Pick another one.

White Team Male Student B: Which means...Kumigami?

Nakarai: It's settled, then.

The moment Nakarai lets out a vulgar smile...
I stand up.

Nakarai: That's how it is, Suu-chan.

Sasamaru: ...

Then, our eyes meet.

Nakarai: Ahn? What?

"Their" conversation continues.

Echoing in my head like the conversation between small people living inside my brain.

Sasamaru: ...You tainted it.

Nakarai: Ahn?

Sasamaru: Right now, you...tainted the "Four Noble Ones."

Nakarai: Huh? The hell you sayi...

Sasamaru: You plan to hurt my "friends," don't you?

Aaah...

Nakarai: UOOOOORRRGGHHHH!!

...It arises.

I feel all the hairs on my whole body stand up.

My lips shiver. I show my teeth like closing my lips with my canines.

Aah.

Aah, that's right.

I suddenly realize.

No wonder this felt "nostalgic."

I've been raising it for a long, long time.

It is white.

Enough to paint over that darkness.

No, it's not.
It's {\i1}white and thick.{\i0}

Because just white isn't enough.

I wanted to paint over that darkness.

I wanted to break out of that darkness.

The "white" that I desired.

The surroundings always seemed white.

So, this is the fake "white" that I produced.

A fake "white" that simply imitates the light I desired.

I'm sure this is why I've kept company with it since a long time ago.

White Team Male Student A: What the!? What's with him!?

My canines open a hole. The taste of blood spreading from my lips to the insides of my mouth...

...forces me up from the depths.
I push on.
I can't stop myself!!

Aah, it's white.

A white fake.

It is a very...

{\i1}...a very ugly white.{\i0}

At this moment, I can tell the man from a while ago fainted.

Because I accurately hit his vital spots.

The human body is complex and simple.

It is vainly strong and vainly weak.

I'm driving into it.
I know this firsthand.

If you know {\i1}what happens if you do this and that{\i0}, it becomes a simple {\i1}toy{\i0}.

Of course I know.

I had driven the "human body structure" into my head.

White Team Male Student C: Y-you bastard!!

There is an offensive noise.

There is a shadow moving at my side.
I don't have to turn around to accurately know its movements.

My field of vision is expanded for this purpose.

Despite hesitating at the sudden situation, the shadow perceives it...
enrages and raises its fist.

But so what?
It's so...

Sasamaru: {\i1}(That slowness...){\i0}

Slow.
Weak.
Aah, so, this is...

Sasamaru: So, the white gentlemen are weak.

Araragi: Umm.

Sasamaru: Yes?

Araragi: Hey, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Y-yeah.

Sasamaru: ...?

Araragi: Umm, Harutsuge-chan wants to say something to you.

Sasamaru: Haru...tsuge-san?

Araragi: Yup. She's one grade above, but, maybe you've heard of her. She's this school's leader of the delinquents.

Harutsuge: S-stop that weird introduction, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Ahaha...ah, well, sorry. I'm Yumeno Araragi. I'm one year younger than you, senpai.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Hey, hey, Harutsuge-chan.

Then, the urged person stepped forward.

Harutsuge: Hey.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Harutsuge: Err, well.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Harutsuge: Hmm...

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. Hang in there.

Harutsuge: Ah, yeah.

With her back pushed by the small one, the girl called Harutsuge throwed her chest forward as if she had resolved herself.

Harutsuge: Your actions are truly splendid!

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: I felt ashamed after looking at you. You're admirable!

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...And...that's all.

After the girl called Harutsuge unexpectedly blushed, she faced away.

Araragi: Well, it's very rare for Harutsuge-chan to say this. She's always been the prideful brats' leader.

Harutsuge: H-hey, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan wants to become friends with you. Okay? So, could you be her friend?

Harutsuge: I-I'm not really...

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: H-huh?

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Sorry for coming out of the blue. But Harutsuge-chan is a very good kid. If it's okay with you...

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Ah...err...

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: ...Waah.

Araragi: Aaaah! Harutsuge-chan will cry! Please! Please! Please become her friend!

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: U-umm.

Sasamaru: Friends?

Araragi: Eh?

...Friends?

More...
"friends"?

As soon as the lessons ended, he left the classroom in a hurry like always.

I made up a reason for myself to be a little late.

Something...

I wonder if there's something I can say...something I can do.

Hiyo: Umm, Harutsuge-sa...

I'm about to say the words I spent the whole night thinking about, but I gulp down these words and start from scratch.

Still, despite hesitating with my feelings coming back and forth, I try to call out Harutsuge, who is about to leave the classroom...
when...

...a noisy visitor appears.

White Team Male Student B: Kashi...b-bad news!!

The one who jumps in with a changed expression is a student from a class with a bad reputation.

In this school, where the total number of students is extremely low, you recognize most students even without being acquainted with them.

You also hear rumors, whether you want to or not.
Good ones and bad ones.

Still, the only ones we don't know the real shape of are the student council.

White Team Male Student B: That fella...the man from your class is running amok!! Do something!!

He probably doesn't know his name. The student talks with such a phrasing.

But there's only one man from this classroom.

It's evident whom he's talking about.
I reflexively stand up.

Harutsuge: Right, he's running amok.

But Harutsuge isn't surprised. She's confirming the truth with a somewhat indifferent voice.

White Team Male Student B: The hell you're so calm!? Do something already!

Harutsuge: ...

White Team Male Student B: H-hey!

Harutsuge: Don't be unreasonable.

White Team Male Student B: He's messed up! J-just come with me!

Harutsuge: ...

But Harutsuge isn't moving. She's simply looking at him with an indifferent gaze, as if glaring at him.

White Team Male Student B: Nobu-kun was the first to get beaten. You're the only one who can stop him! I beg you!

Harutsuge: I'm saying that's unreasonable. I can't meet your expectations.

White Team Male Student B: Kashi!!

Harutsuge: That's impossible...because he's far stronger than me.

White Team Male Student B: ...Huh?

The student is taken aback for one moment, as if time had stopped.

White Team Male Student B: W-what joke is...that...

White Team Male Student B: Y-you're mad at us, right? Because we picked a fight with your classmate.

Harutsuge: ...

White Team Male Student B: Well, I apologize, then. But stop with that...okay? We're really in deep here.

Harutsuge: You immediately ran away after he started rampaging. You realized you were no match for him and promptly ran away. Am I right?

White Team Male Student B: T-that's right. What about it?

Harutsuge: This can be easily guessed after some observation. The power difference between him and me is on another scale.

White Team Male Student B: ...

Harutsuge: You have angered the only person in this school who you must never anger. Stop whining and accept your fate.

I wonder if the words "pale face" are used in a time like this.

The taken-aback student is {\i1}still continuously being taken aback.{\i0}

Harutsuge: But you guys are truly amazing.

White Team Male Student B: ...Eh?

Harutsuge: {\i1}You really made Suu Sasamaru mad{\i0}, right? I'm saying that you're amazing.

White Team Male Student B: What...do you mean?

Harutsuge: You said that he's "running amok" and that you "picked a fight," but you're wrong. You guys have "truly angered Suu Sasamaru."

Harutsuge: It's unthinkable that he acts violently without a good reason. He doesn't pick a fight, even when provoked.

Harutsuge: That man almost never gets angry. He always gets hurt and feels sorry, but he doesn't {\i1}get angry{\i0}. No matter what he's called...nor what is done to him.

Harutsuge: ...For some reason, he always seems enraged toward himself.

White Team Male Student B: Eh...eh?

Harutsuge: As far as I know, there's only one way to truly anger him.

White Team Male Student B: W-what are you...

Harutsuge: I'm saying that you're ridiculous. Ridiculous for yelling, "it exploded! You kidding me!?" after pressing the bomb switch yourselves.

White Team Male Student B: ...

Harutsuge: Hey, then, tell me. {\i1}How brutally did you insult us to make him angry?{\i0}

White Team Male Student B: Ah...

Harutsuge: I want to know this for future reference. Tell me.

White Team Male Student B: N...no, well...

Harutsuge: Speak.

A tiger behind and a wolf ahead.

Unable to escape, the student is exactly like a small animal about to be devoured.

Ah, of course.
Harutsuge wasn't indifferent.

She was mad from the bottom of her heart after learning that "they enraged Suu Sasamaru."

...I wonder when I realized that I was a "bad kid."

"False accusation."

To intentionally distort the truth and sue someone.

A {\i1}crime{\i0} of claiming a false statement with the objective of making another receive punishment or reprimand.

Called crime of false accusation until the criminal law reform.

"Your father is a very amazing person."
I was raised hearing this...
...from the mouth of my father himself.

I didn't know the details.
The information given to me was that "my father is amazing" and "my father was betrayed."

"I entrusted everything to the restoration, but it was all used to make him have an easy life."

The information given to me was only from my father.

Sorry for being bad at guessing.

"I'm doing this to you because your father is pitiful."

Yes, of course.
My dear father is pitiful.

"So, there's no other way."

Yes, of course.
There's no other way.

//text on screen
Crime of false accusation.

//text on screen
To intentionally distort the truth and sue someone.

"My dear father is pitiful."

Before I noticed, this favorite phrase changed to "it's your fault."

He punched me while saying this many, many times.

With this, I was finally able to realize that I was a "bad kid."

"It's your fault."
"That's why your father must do this to you."

Yes, of course.
It's my fault.
Dear father, thank you very much for making me realize this.

Sorry for making you punch me.
Sorry for making you go through this painful experience.
I repeatedly apologized.

Because, when punching me, my dear father was always with a face about to cry.

//text on screen
Crime of false accusation.

//text on screen
To intentionally distort the truth and sue someone.

One day, my dear father said this.

"Change into your martial arts uniform."

He took me to the dojo.
The Suu household's desolated dojo that hadn't been used for a long time.

Apparently, a dojo is something that rapidly decays if it's not used.

Its condition was exactly that of a shrine where no worshipers come.

My dear father said, "I'm going to train you."

My dear father always said, "the winner is right."

"This is the rule of this world."
"This is the only and one rule that exists."
"That's why I'm right."
"But that bastard used underhanded tricks."

I didn't get it, but, if my dear father was saying that, it must be true.

But...
After I started changing into the uniform...
After my dear father changed the place that he punched me to the dojo...
After my father started repeating, "this is training," as if it was a hex...

...my dear father stopped punching me with a face about to cry.

He was with a face a bit relieved.

I was happy about this.

My dear father taught me many things.

"Sasa. If you're right, you should be able to win."

Yes.

"You can't win because you're wrong. Because you're a bad kid."

Yes.

"So, I'm always, always right."

Yes.

Everything. Everything was just as my dear father said.

Thank you very much for always, always teaching me, a bad kid, my "place."

That was my every day.
Continuing forever and ever, my every day.

//text on screen
Crime of false accusation.

//text on screen
To intentionally distort the truth and sue someone.

But I suddenly thought about it.

Hiyo...
Araragi...
Harutsuge...

After they started calling me "friend"...

...They said my politely was "weird."
I was speaking weird and should speak properly.
They said, "call me by my name, not the surname."

After I started having this occasional hallucination of "maybe I'm not different from everyone"...

Every time I was punched with "you're a bad kid"...
Every time I was kicked with "you're a bad kid"...
Every time I was thrown with "you're a bad kid"...

...something crossed my mind.

Was I really a bad kid?

Did I do something bad?

//text on screen
Crime of false accusation.

//text on screen
To intentionally distort the truth and sue someone.

Hey, dear father. May I ask you something?

Maybe...

Maybe, I think...

Dear father, is what you're doing to me a "crime of false accusation"?

Is it? Dear father?

Hey, dear father......

..................

Hiyo: *Gasp*...!

I'm already running toward where he probably is: the white team's classroom.

It's exactly as Harutsuge-san said.
He's strong.

"A school student with bad reputation" is no match for him.

The outcome won't change at all, even if this becomes "school {\i1}students{\i0} with bad reputation."

"An inborn strength, a blessed physique, experience with fights."
He's not in a dimension where these apply.

The only ones who are a match for him are veterans with real training.

And only {\i1}ones with more training than him.{\i0}

Therefore...

Hiyo: (There's no one in this school who's a match for him.)

I arrive at the white team's classroom.

I reflexively gasp at this scenery.

It's a unilateral...

A very unilateral {\i1}annihilation{\i0}.

I wasn't present there, but I can easily imagine from my previous experiences.
After a single look at the white team students' faces.

I'm not realizing this "because it's me."

This is something that "even me" realizes.

The white team students are running in fear.
There's not a shard of the "composure" such as "aren't we in trouble?" or "we should escape for the time being."

For example, a zoo.
What if the animal cage you approached out of curiosity in order to admire broke?

What if that animal were hungry and attacked you for real in order to devour you?

This is the face they're showing.

He's serious.
I feel the threatening of life.

They're running about trying to escape in order to simply, simply, and desperately protect their lives from the violence.

I bitterly feel that, originally, the word "frantic" should be used in a time like this.

White Team Male Student A: No, stop. Please stop. I beg you. Sto...

The next moment.

The opponent he {\i1}grabs by the face and lifts higher than himself{\i0} is blown away.

And high overhead.
The moment I realize this is the result of him kicking up from below...

...the falling and already fainted student is thrown with a backhand blow.

Hiyo: Nngh!

{\i1}He's destroying.{\i0}

What is happening before me is not a fight.

White Team Male Student C: Please forgive me. I beg you. Don't eat me. Please don't eat me.

He is not doing a fist fight.
This is by no means "speaking with the fists."

White Team Male Student D: I'm so...I'm very sorr...

He's simply destroying...

...everything before him...

...and returning it to ashes.

White Team Male Student E: AAAAAAHHHHHH I'M SORRY!

He's simply destroying, destroying, destroying, destroying, and destroying.

Hiyo: (Ho...ney...)

Yes, it's exactly as Harutsuge said.

It's an extreme way of speaking, but it's as she said.

He might feel insulted and offended, something normal to all humans, but...
{\i1}he doesn't get angry in the real sense of the word.{\i0}

No matter how much others ridicule or punch him...

...he has an extremely strong resistance toward "acting violent."

So, only a very, very small group of people know his strength.

Those who angered him enough to make him violent.
Them.

{\i1}What did they say?{\i0}
{\i1}What did they do?{\i0}

A heavy feeling is boiling up from deep inside my chest.
But this feeling is immediately negated.

My vision blurs.

He's saddened.

Hiyo: (I'm sorry.)

I'm sorry for thinking it's sad.

Sorry for harboring feelings of sympathy.

But he's saddened.

Sasamaru: It's because I'm a "bad kid."

His face, like a demon, is unbearably sad.

We naturally started seeing each other after class.

Before I realized, the time we four spent together increased.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: Well...out of nowhere, we started playing together, did we not?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Ah.

That's right.

Sasamaru: We kinda started playing together, right?

"My politely is weird."
Everyone said this to me.

Kumigami-san also spoke politely, but they said, "that's different."

"I don't know, but it's different."
"They don't like when I talk like that."

Everyone was expre...
saying that, so, I was talking normally in front of them.

Araragi: Right, right.

After I said that, Yumeno-san...

...Oops.

{\i1}Araragi{\i0} said that with a smile.

Araragi: Yup. We're now always together.

Sasamaru: Err...

Araragi: Hmm?

There was something I always wanted to say.
What Hiyo said to me.
What Harutsuge said to me.

Sasamaru: Yumeno-sa...I mean, Araragi.

Araragi: Yes.

So, I thought I should say it myself that time.

If I said that, my surroundings would become...
a little bit, just a little bit whiter.

I gathered my courage and said it.

Sasamaru: Can you be my "friend"?

Araragi: Eh?

I wonder if I was too euphoric.
Araragi made an expression, as if she heard something unexpected.

Sasamaru: Ah.

That's right. They said something else.

Sasamaru: C-could you be my friend?

Araragi: ...

I knew it...it was no use.
Well, there was nothing I could do.

Araragi: W-weren't we already friends!?

Sasamaru: Eh?

I was surprised by Araragi's reaction.

With a very miserable face, she was with tears in her eyes.

Sasamaru: Err, ah, well, I'm sorry.

I didn't know why she was making that face nor what I should do.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry.

She sighed at my response.
Like, "I have no choice."

Araragi: Well, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Y-yes.

Araragi: You don't have to put it into words.

Sasamaru: Eh? Eh?

But...

Sasamaru: But Hiyo and Harutsuge...

And in Harutsuge's case, it was Araragi who said it.

Araragi: Because the relationship wouldn't start unless she said that.

Sasamaru: A relationship that wouldn't start...unless she said that?

Araragi: Hmmm.

Araragi made a troubled expression at the inattentive me.

I felt regretful and...

Sasamaru: I'm sorr...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi promptly spoke her words, as if holding back mine.

Araragi: I'll say it, then.

Saying that, Araragi held out her hand.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan. Please be my friend.

Sasamaru: Sure!

I immediately replied.

All right! I then became friends with Araragi...
wait.

Sasamaru: (...Huh?)

But something was different.

Different from with Hiyo and Harutsuge.

Araragi: See?

Look, Araragi was smiling.

Araragi: It's different, right?

Sasamaru: Y...yes.

It was true. It was as Araragi said.
Somehow...it felt weird.

It should had been the same as before, but it was not.

Sasamaru: But why? What's different from before?

Araragi: I don't know how it was with Hiyo-chan. But with Harutsuge-chan, you haven't talked to each other, right?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: So, she needed an opportunity for it.

Sasamaru: An opportunity?

Araragi: That's right. It's not when you ask, "please be my friend," that the person really becomes your friend.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: A friend is something you naturally become. You don't become friends because you promise.

Sasamaru: Naturally...become?

Araragi: Yup. Sasamaru-chan, you and I are already friends.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: So, we didn't need those words.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: With Hiyo-chan, I wonder if it was really necessary too.

...I got it.

That's...right.

Sasamaru: ...Yeah. I think...I got it...somewhat. Yeah.

After I said that, Araragi happily smiled.

Hiyo: Ah, you're already here.

Harutsuge: What? Quite fast, you two.

When the fixed time came, everyone gathered out of nowhere.

Everyone gathered like it was natural, without having to promise "where will we play next?" or "let's play again tomorrow."

This is "friends."

Hiyo granted me a chance.
Harutsuge expanded it.
And Araragi...
taught me.

"Aah."

"Aah, I have three whole friends."

It was at that time when I really understood its meaning.

Hiyo: Do you know about the "Four Noble Ones"?

She spoke about our common feature.

Hiyo: Eh...

No matter how childish that idea was or how forceful it was...

Hiyo: H-honey?

...I cried after hearing that story.

"Waah-waah," crying disgracefully.

I felt that day was the first time that "Sasa" was able to become "bamboo grass."

I won't ever reach the gallant "bamboo" but...
I finally felt that "I'm one of them."

Even if I'm a fake one mixed among the four seasons' nobles...
Even if I know they "placed me in here"...

...for me, the fact of having a "common feature" with everyone was an irreplaceable happiness.

"The Four Noble Ones."

For me, this is an existence I'll never yield.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan is late.

Harutsuge: Is Hiyo-kun coming today? Is she?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan is all lovey-dovey with Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: Don't be so jealous. I'm all lovey-dovey for you too, Araragi-kun.

Sasamaru: Ah, I'll go call Hiyo, then.

Harutsuge: Very good, lovey-dovey number 3. Go, 5 seconds left. 4, 3, 2, 1...

Sasamaru: W-wait...err, the green vinyl leaf used in the lunch box division is called haran or baran. It's made to resemble the aspidistra plant.

Araragi: Ah, it's the 330 time.

Harutsuge: 330 time?

Araragi: Yup. It's the Sasamaru-chan's mental concentration, so, "330" becomes Sasamaru ti...Ah, it's better if we call it "Sasamaru time."

Harutsuge: Umm...this has been worrying me for a long time, but if you really thought, "I just said something good!" I'll have to take a straight look at the sad reality of Araragi turning into a middle-aged man.

Sasamaru: "Sasamaru time."

Harutsuge: Why are your eyes sparkling?

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. Don't you think this is great?

Sasamaru: It's very good! "Sasamaru time"! From now on, this is how I'll call my strange habit!

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: I wonder why Harutsuge-chan is with an "eeeghhh" face.

Harutsuge: I'm finally about to succumb to the Araragi rule.

And like that, little by little...

...really, little by little, I was getting used to the days with my "friends."

I thought my way of speaking was changing little by little, and even my personality.

Harutsuge said, "that must be your real face."

Before I realized, the school had turned into a very fun place.

Suddenly, I was enjoying my chat with everyone.

And like that, gradually...

...gradually, I started noticing that my house was {\i1}strange.{\i0}

My dark every day.

I yearned for the white.

That's why I imagined it countless times.

But even if I imagined this white, it was simply white, without any sparkle.

It was only to forcefully paint over the dark.

I learned that mixing black and white results in gray, but this didn't become gray.

It wasn't mixing.

Not sparkling, the white was simply painted over the black.

I noticed that.

That's why I was scared.

The white that was around me would be easily torn off by any small stimulus.

Then, the black would swiftly return.

I was scared.

So scared, I couldn't stand it.

Losing those fantastic days was...
no.

Just like with Hiyo that day...

...I was scared of me, the black, tainting everyone, the white.

That was more scary than anything.

I realized.

He had been abused long ago.

And every day, habitually, continuously.

He had been receiving all and every abuse possible.

That's why he has tremendous resistance toward {\i1}acting like that{\i0}.

Therefore, he always holds himself back with extremely strong self-control as to not act violently, no matter what happens.

Despite this, despite all this, he's now acting violent.

He's rampaging as his uncontrolled anger so desires.

The chains binding him tore off and, burning with rage, he's hurting the target in front of him.

And he's the one who despises this the most.

Hiyo: Honey!!

I must stop him.

Unable to bear it, I jump out and try to hold him from behind.

Sasamaru: ...

Accurately sensing my presence, he has already turned over to me.

However, he hasn't completely turned over.

Half of his body is still facing the white team, and I can't really say that his face has "turned over."

He's still cautious about them, already without their fighting spirit and only thinking about running away.
No, he's not {\i1}letting them escape.{\i0}

Aah, he's completely regarding them as "enemies."

Enemies.
Enemies of Suu Sasamaru.

Enemies of the "Four Noble Ones"!

Hiyo: ...

I can't stop the shivering in my body.

Even in this situation, he's still watching me.
Perceiving me.
I can tell it with my skin.

I too learned several self-defense techniques as part of the Kumigami household's education.

That's why I know.
I'll simply be crushed by him.

As she herself said, Harutsuge-san too is no match for him.
There was not a speckle of modesty in her words.

We know his real strength because we have some training.

We know how superior his talent is regarding "martial arts."

And we also know how much talent we can display with our days of training.

He's now worked up. I wonder how I'm reflected in his eyes.
I wonder how he heard my voice.

It was just for one moment.

There's nothing I could do if he promptly judged I was an "enemy" about to attack from behind.

Hiyo: (But...)

Even for one moment...

No.
I must not let this continue even for one moment longer.

This is why I {\i1}push on without stopping.{\i0}

Hiyo: Please stop! Honey!!

I don't mind.
If this calms down his anger, I don't mind being punched.

There is a territory I cannot break into.

A territory where I cannot ask about, even if I'm able to guess it.

I'm sure he'll talk if I ask him.

Because I'm in the "Four Noble Ones."

This is why I cannot ask.
I cannot do this action of forcefully pulling out his painful past.

It must be when he wants to talk about it.

As "she" always did with me.

Still, I can infer it from the contents scattered here and there in our days and conversations so far.

From the fragmented information, I can only piece it together with imagination, but if there's one thing I can say for certain...
is that, as a "result," he was thrown into a day-after-day abuse.

Sasamaru: Yes.

I remember the first time I met him.

I remember those dead eyes.

They weren't dark nor gloomy.

Those eyes.
They had nothing.

Now, he has the same eyes.

Hiyo: (That's why!!)

What is a "parent"?

Someday, I started thinking this.

Other parents...
from what I heard, they take care of their children.

I often saw ones complaining with "they're nagging" and "the training is too harsh."

I was envious of this.

Because my home didn't have it.

"They're nagging" and "the training is too harsh," I'm sure all of this means...

Now, I think I know a little about the feeling of "like."

Because everyone scolded me.

Because they told me, "that's weird" and "stop that."

I can't explain it well, but I understand. A little.

Sometime ago, we had this conversation.

The Japanese character for parent "親" is composed by the characters for watching "見" a tree "木" rise "立".

That was simply bits of knowledge I read in a book, but Araragi abruptly said this.

"Tree...is it talking about a child?"

After listening, Harutsuge muttered that with a deep emotion.

"Then, the 'watching' must be a 'parent watching the child.'"

And then, Hiyo, whom everyone started calling "you're so smart," summed up and said this.

"The 'parent' watches over the tree called child until it becomes a grown tree."

//text on screen
Sasa.

He said, "I want to ask something."

I thought, "how unusual," but my body returned to normal after returning home.

Several years had passed since then, but that never changed.

I was surprised, but the body didn't react.

I just mechanically replied, "yes," like always.

Father: I heard the daughter of the Kumigami household is in your class.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Father: The daughter of the Kumigami household. She's there, isn't she?

He punched me after I asked in return.

That was the usual. I no longer felt anything.

More importantly...

While having a nosebleed, I doubted my ears.

Sasamaru: (Is this about...Hiyo?)

I froze.
I simply froze.

I was used to an emotionless face in front of my father, but...
{\i1}one frozen with shock{\i0} might had been the first time.

I timidly raised my face. And what was reflected in my eyes was my father's {\i1}usual{\i0} face.

Like pasted over a mask, a filthy...
smile.

My heart was startled.

Father: Bring her here.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Father: Become friends with her.

After his words, my heart rate was increasing more and more.

Disordered feelings of complaint with "why" and "how" were flying about inside my head.

Back then, the young me didn't know the reason, but...
now I know.

That was a warning.

Father: Though, I'm not expecting a brat like you to make friends. Just make something up and bring her here, got it? I'll take care of the rest.

Thinking back upon it, my father had a {\i1}very dreadful idea.{\i0}

"The daughter of a wealthy family goes to the same school as his son."

"And this daughter is his son's classmate."

I didn't know how he found out. But what he planned with just this information...
was probably something very simple and, exactly because it was simple, vulgar.

From his way of speaking, I didn't think he knew about my relationship with Hiyo.

That's why he talked like that.

Father: Lie to her and bring her here. I don't care if you use force. Got it?

Without waiting for an answer, my father said this.

It was natural.

In that house, it was natural that I agreed after my father spoke.
He didn't need to wait for my reply.

Because "that is how I was."

But...

Sasamaru: (I have to say it.)

That's why I had to say it.

I was not allowed to "pretend not to listen" or "say yes but don't actually do it."

My father's words themselves were my actions.
That was natural.

That's why I had to have him say, "I changed my mind."

If my father "changes," it becomes something I "must not do."

Sasamaru: ...

I tried to speak, but the words weren't coming out.

It was a sound like air passing through a swollen-up throat.

Sasamaru: (But why?)

I was sure it was because that was the first time in my life I did that.

It was the first time and, at the same time, an absolute taboo.

I wouldn't have thought about this action if I hadn't met them.

Sasamaru: ...

Look, there.
What was I trying to say?

My throat was dried up.

Sasamaru: ...ah.

But I had to say.
I had to speak out.

Sasamaru: Umm.

I said it.
In a feeble and hoarse voice.

Sasamaru: Umm.

That's fine.
Speak out just like that.

Sasamaru: Umm!

Spit it out!!

With his back to me, my father's movements stopped.

Sasamaru: M-may I...ask one thing?

Father: ...Huh?

My father made a surprised expression at my statement.

Sasamaru: F-friends.

Father: Huh?

Sasamaru: They called me...a friend.

Father: Huh?

Sasamaru: They called me a "friend."

Father: ...What are you talking about?

Sasamaru: Dear father...what are you...planning to do...with my...friend?

Father: Don't tell me you...

Sasamaru: My fr-friends. The first one...was Hiyo.

Father: Well, good job. That saves us time. Tomorrow, bring the daughter of the Kumigami...

Sasamaru: Next was Harutsuge...

Father: ...Harutsuge?

Sasamaru: And lastly, Araragi...

Father: Hey, I only need the wealthy one. I'm surprised a brat like you know all of those. But my business is only with the wealthy one.

Father: {\i1}Sasa.{\i0} You hear me? Tomorrow, bring the daughter of the Kumigami household here.

Sasamaru: But what do you need Hiyo...

Father: It's a nice event. Something to make even you happy. As a result, that is.

Sasamaru: ...

Father: Got it? Bring her here tomorrow.

Sasamaru: Tomorrow. Tomorrow...we promised...to go to the library.

Father: Hey, Sasa. I've passed your orders. Did you hear me?

Sasamaru: But...we promised...

Father: I don't get it. I said I've already passed the orders.

Sasamaru: We promised. It's a promise with my friends. I can't break it.

Father: ...

Sasamaru: They're my friends. All of them. All.

Father: ...Got it, Sasa.

Sasamaru: Eh?

I was surprised by his words.

It was my first and small resistance in my whole life.
He said, "got it."

He understood me.
He understood my wish.

Aah...
I was so relieved at that time.

Father: Those you call "friends." Throw away all of them.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Father: They have nothing to do with you. And lure here your classmate Hiyo.

Sasamaru: ...

Father: Got it? Don't make me repeat myself.

Sasamaru: Frie...nds...

Father: You don't need those, Sasa. You're a good kid who listens to his parent.

Sasamaru: A good...kid?

Wasn't I a "bad kid"?

Father: You're this home's kid. My son. You'll listen to what I say, won't you?

Sasamaru: ...

Father: If you got it, then just remember what you must do. Just like always.

Sasamaru: My...friends...

Father: Huh?

Sasamaru: I've made...friends.

Father: ...

Sasamaru: I've made...friends!

Father: I don't care, you idiot! Forget about that!!

Sasamaru: Fo...

For...get?

Sasamaru: ...

I can't forget.

I can't forget!

So, once more, I...

Sasamaru: I've made friends!!

I screamed...
as much as my voice let me.

The next moment, I was blown away up to the wall.

Defenselessly, I received the attack that accurately seized me, and I crashed onto the wall.
After my vision wavered, my body lost all of its power.

Sasamaru: ...agh.

I let out a strange voice.

I had more words to continue, but, like a goldfish, only breath left my flapping mouth.

Sasamaru: ...ah, agh...

Still, there was something I had to say.

Something I had to ask.

Something I always, always wanted to ask.

Sasamaru: ...Dear...father...

Father: Urhh. You've gotten quite tough, Sasa.

Father: You'll become even stronger. More, more, more.

Father: But don't forget. It's because you're my son. Because I'm training you. Never forget this.

Son.

Yes, that.

Sasamaru: Dear father. You're my father, right?

Father: Huh?

Sasamaru: {\i1}You're really my father, right?{\i0}

What I always wanted to ask.

I was able to be with everyone. And a question I wanted to ask my father arose.

Dear father...

Dear father, do you "like" me?

Sasamaru: egh...agh...

Father: The hell do you mean? Huh?

Please say you "like" me.

I'm okay with this. I'll be able to be your son.

I can be the {\i1}me you always wanted.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Please...say it...

Father: Huh?

Sasamaru: Please say you "like" me.

Father: ...

Sasamaru: Please say you're my "father"!!

Father: Sasa, you little...did you break somewhere?

Father: What you must think about is what to do with this house. Yes. Isn't this more important?

Sasamaru: I'm...from the Suu household.

Father: Exactly.

Sasamaru: I'm...aware of it. I...I'm thinking...about it.

Sasamaru: I'll...inherit the...dojo.

Sasamaru: And turn it into a place that pleases you...

Father: The hell you're saying!? It's not that! It's not that!!

Father: I'm not talking about "your dojo." I'm talking about "my dojo"!

Father: You never had "your dojo." This place would be over if I hadn't restored it. It would have disappeared!

Sasamaru: ...

Father: What you must do as "one from the Suu household" is to lift me up. Stop thinking about pointless things like successor.

Sasamaru: I'm...your...son.

Father: Yes, my son. {\i1}My loyal slave.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

Father: Do not mistake this again. You're here to be useful to me. I don't need someone who's not useful.

Sasamaru: ...

Father: Got it? Sasa?

Sasamaru: ...

Father: Where's your answer?

Sasamaru: ...

Father: Hey, Sasa.

Sasamaru: Do you..."like" me?

Father: Huh?

Sasamaru: Do you..."like"...me?

Father: Stop screwing around!!

When I close my eyes and try to reminisce about the past, it's all pitch dark.

There's no light.
The sun has risen.
There's also electric light.
But there's no illumination nor light.

Aah, but there's a light.

Sasamaru: (There's a light, dear father.)

Sasamaru: (It's...dazzling.)

It's very dazzling.

Sasamaru: (It's...warm.)

It's very warm, but...

...the light...

...that light...

Are you trying to erase that light with this house's...with our darkness?

Father: ...Huh?

I myself couldn't believe my actions.

Father: Y...you bastard...

I stepped forward.

And simply hit.

A superficial technique with the tip of the hands was useless.
A flashy one that might be mistaken for acrobatics was useless.
What I sought was a simple strike.

A hammer flash that mows down everything it touches.

This is what you, dear father...
the way to use the fist that you taught me.

Father: ...You do know what you're doing, don't you?

//text on screen
"Friends"

I realized...

Sasamaru: ...It's you.

Father: Huh?

...that your thrust was getting weaker day after day.

Sasamaru: I'm the one...who should ask, "do you know what you're doing?"

Father: Huh? Hey, Sasa...

...that every time you came home reeking of alcohol, you were getting weaker little by little.

...that the sharpness was vanishing.
...that the fury was disappearing.
...that the pain in this body was getting weaker.

And also...
Did you notice that?

...that every time you let me thrust you as a joke, it was getting stronger?

...that every time you punished me and let me counter while calling it training, it was increasing in fierceness?

And now...
did you notice?

Father: Oh...

Did you notice why you staggered now?

How much pain did my strike, that you were evading like it was a child's play, give your body now?

Did you notice this, dear father?

Father: Nngh...seems I drank too much.

Sasamaru: It's not that, dear father. Even drunk, you were strong.

Sasamaru: You {\i1}had{\i0} enough strength to easily crush someone like me.

But back then...

...you had become weak.
And I was stronger thanks to you.

Father: Don't get carried away, Sasaaaaaaaaaa!!

I didn't think I was able to turn the tables.

You still were in a great position.

But I...

...I...!

..."I will not"!!

I will not yield this!!

Sasamaru: ...You said this, didn't you?

I put my breath in order.

Yes. You said this, didn't you?

Over and over...

Over and over with a breath reeking of alcohol.

Sasamaru: "The strong ones are right."

I spat out the blood running down from the wound inside my mouth.

I was used to that.

That was nothing.

The taste of iron permeating inside my mouth was my proof.
My proof until then.

That's why I spat it out.

I spat out the blood I had been swallowing until then.

I spat it on my days until then!!

Sasamaru: I'll prove it then, dear father. I should simply win against you.

Father: Saaaasaaaa.

Sasamaru: I won't lose. I'll absolutely not lose.

I won't back down even one step.

I'll prove it.
I'll prove it to you.

...I'll prove it.

The whereabouts of that light.

That light is not a sham white that I created.

Sasamaru: I'll win against you and prove that light is real!!

Hiyo: Honey!!

When I hug his back...

...I'm in a pattern as if I was blocking one of his arms, but...

No, the issue here is...
that while I'm clinging to his body like this, I'm nothing more than an obstacle, but...

...I'm fully aware of how dangerous it is to grab him during a fight.

He won't be able to evade nor shake off like this.

And not even punch.

Hiyo: (Aah.)

Aah, for him...

...the "Four Noble Ones" are absolute.

An existence that must not be tainted no matter what happens.

An existence to protect, even at the cost of one's life.

And also...
Aah, I...

He's able to see me as "Kumigami Hiyo of the Four Noble Ones."

I pray.

Wishing for him to answer back, I pray this inside my heart.

"Yes, honey."

Aah, it's white.

Pure white as far as the eye can see.

It's painting over that darkness from above. I let out a sigh of relief.

But this white is not beautiful.

It's a fake, somewhat irregular. When asked what color it is, I can only answer "white."

This world possessing a dull stain that I'm reluctant to call it "white"...
is somewhat painful to look at.

Like an old oil painting that might fall off if you touch it.

Now, I can almost see the bottom that's forcefully covered with a dull color.

Like an eggshell.

Locking up with an eggshell what I don't want to see.

As if averting my eyes, overlapping layer over layer.

But I catch glimpses of the locked-up object from the overlapped crevices.

A world where I, frightened of and trembling at these crevices, cover it up with shells one on top of another, as if deceiving myself.

This isn't "not beautiful."
It's "filthy."

I think that this world full of patches is just like me.

No.

It's not just like me.
It's not similar.

It's my own self.

Much had happened since that incident.

For my shame, I was absentminded and didn't remember well the details right after it.

I was shocked that I "punched my father."

The more I felt that was a fact, the more my fist trembled.

The trembling didn't stop with time.

Because, for me, my father was always an "absolute" being.

Maybe it's because of this that I rarely use the word "absolute."

Because I was raised in an environment where his words were "absolute."

It was thanks to everyone that I realized what that means.

The police.
Abuse.
Custody.

Before I knew it, I was staying at my aunt's house.

It was a distant place, different from the town I was born and raised in.

Time passed while I was waiting for several things like "until the matters are settled."

I'm eternally grateful for my aunt for her continuous efforts.

Thinking about it, I couldn't even say goodbye to everyone.

So, I could consent if everyone were angry at me or hating me.

But...

...I was able to stop it.

That single fact gave me peace of mind.

I was able to stop my father, who was about to hurt the "Four Noble Ones."

I was relieved.
Or not, I wasn't sure.
I was sure the method I chose was wrong.

But I was able to protect the valuable existence that saved me, the irreplaceable existence for me.

I didn't mind if I got distanced from them like that.

They gave me something that cannot be exchanged for anything.

...Well, of course.
I'd be lying if I said I wasn't sad.
I did that arbitrarily.

And the one who extended her hand to me...

...was Hiyo with her letters.

There was an idea hidden inside my chest.

Sasamaru: I have a proposal.

Inside that characteristic air, I was the first one who raised the hand.

Onitake-sensei: Suu, will your proposal change this world?

Sasamaru: I'm...not sure about the world, but it can at least repaint the school's common sense.

I could tell the air trembled.

Everyone must have thought, "that's more than you can chew."

Onitake-sensei: Hmm. Interesting. Then, Suu. Go ahead and say it.

Sasamaru: Yes, it's...

Instead, that rumbling air was pleasant.

In front of everyone, I explained the plan I pictured.

And she said my proposal was "nonsensical."

Sasamaru: That's not true, Harutsuge. It'll be an accumulation of steady work, but it's doable.

Harutsuge: So, it depends on our efforts. Then, let's say we finish it. How will that become a "project"?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge. I think it's unnatural. This school is unnatural.

Sasamaru: Because {\i1}there's one person missing.{\i0} One of the friends who was supposed to be holding hands isn't here.

Harutsuge: One person...missing?

Sasamaru: Yeah. That's why we're bringing him back. With our own hands.

Sasamaru: We're going to get the "four friends" together.

This is a room where only faint light shines in.

Dim, damp and somewhat chilly.

Existing in the school's basement, this room is like a confinement room.

No, I wonder if it actually was a confinement room.

Because this is a place to imprison those who will receive punishment.

It's the place where I, the one who caused the "accident," am locked up at.

Sasamaru: (...Well, I can understand.)

I did all those acts of violence.
It's understandable.

Also, the one who started the fight was me.

After that, the student council's Waka-san came and put me in here.

"Stay here until we decide how to deal with you."

This isn't surprising. After all, I did all of that.

My mind went blank after the white team fellas' words and...

...before I realized, I was rampaging in their classroom.

But I noticed.

When I confronted them, I noticed the difference in strength between us.

I have enough power to smash up regardless of the number of people.

Even so, I couldn't stop.

My heart was driven by indignation, raising my first as my impulses let me.

Sasamaru: (...That's simply violence.)

But more importantly, I used it despite hating it.

Unable to control myself, I was just taken by anger and tormented them, who couldn't resist.

Sasamaru: (...It's the same as...my father.)

I analyze this feeling almost burning my entrails.

So, I can understand.

It's understandable that they put {\i1}me{\i0} in here.

Sasamaru: (But...)

For some reason, Hiyo has to be here too.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: Why did you say to stay here with me?

Hiyo: No matter how many times you ask, I can only say that I'm guilty because I was there too.

Sasamaru: You're not guilty. You tried to stop me.

Hiyo: No. I couldn't stop you.

Sasamaru: What are you talking about? If you weren't there, I...

I'm sure I'd have tormented them until they could never again stand up.

...After thinking this, my spine shivers.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you saved me.

Hiyo: No.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Because, honey. You're now regretting it.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Recalling the accident, you were about to cry just now.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Strangely, honey, I can see your face even in this darkness.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: This is my sin.

Sasamaru: ...What are you talking about?

Unable to speak, I stare at the floor.

Sasamaru: I don't get it.

Hiyo: That's fine too. Please don't mind me. Just face your issue.

Sasamaru: ...

I can't talk back.

Sasamaru: (My issue, eh...)

It's very quiet.

So quiet that the silence immediately projects its dominance if Hiyo and I keep quiet.

It's too quiet, despite {\i1}having one more room beside it.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Hey, you guys.

Nakarai: Eeeek!!

A withered voice echoes from across the wall.

Sasamaru: Sorry there.

The white team fellas were placed here too...

...in the room beside ours.
At first, the plan was to place us in the same room, but they were frightened and nothing could be done.

They abandoned all and every shame and honor, and clung in tears to Waka-san.

"I beg you, don't place us in the same room as that devil."

Nakarai: Aahh. Aaaaah.

Sasamaru: Hey...

Nakarai: I'm very sorry! I'm s-sorr...

Sasamaru: ...

Nakarai: It was just a joke. We d-don't h-have the g-guts to d-do that...

Nakarai: W-we got c-carried away and s-said that out of the s-spur of the moment. W-we weren't s-serious.

Nakarai: F-fo-forgive us. Please f-forgive us. W-we weren't s-serious.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Exerting violence is always futile.

Even that day, when I stopped my father...

...I was just enduring the pain in my fist while looking down on my collapsed father.

There was nothing else to do.

Nothing else to do, but...
even now, I still spend sleepless nights wondering if there was another method.

Sasamaru: ...

...I caress my fist and reflect that it was inevitable that I was placed here.

But not Hiyo.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo is different.)

The heavy darkness enveloping this place is very similar to my every day in those days.

But that darkness was different.

It was...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...? What's the matter, honey?

Sasamaru: ...It's nothing.

I wonder if it's because she's here beside me.

After sensing a gentle feeling despite this being a repentance room, I do an awkward smile.

I wonder how much time has passed since then.

It's very hard to tell the passage of time in here. Even my current state is uncertain.

I think quite some time has passed, or perhaps not. I feel somewhat hungry, or perhaps not.
This darkness numbs my biological clock.

The darkness numbs several aspects.

From my sensations...
to my heart.

After my eyes got used to this place, I'm now startled by any small sound, and I'm now speaking less.

I know this is how the "darkness" is.

Sasamaru: Ah...!

At this moment, a light suddenly shines in.
I'm feeling as if my eyes were burning.

Waka: I wonder if big sis is all right.

Hiyo: Waka-san?

Waka: Yes. Oh, my poor big sis. I want to exchange places with you if possible.

Hiyo: Thank you very much for your consideration. But this is my punishment.

Waka: ...

What punishment? Hiyo did nothing wrong.

Waka: ...Old geezer...

No wonder Waka-san is glaring at me.
Hiyo got involved in my accident.

Sasamaru: Waka-san. I've already said this many times, but this problem is mine alone. It has nothing to do with Hiyo. Could you let her out?

Waka: I want to do so. But how can I stop someone who wants to enter jail by her own free will?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: And there's two more.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Haru...tsuge?

Hiyo: And Araragi-san.

Waka: These two also want to be here and don't listen to me.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Here we are.

Araragi: Excuse meee.

Sasamaru: H-hey.

Waka: I'll take my leave, then. Hey, old geezer. Hit your little toe twice in a row.

Sasamaru: Wait, Waka-san! They didn't...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge heavily sits down.

Sasamaru: ...What are you thinking?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Hey, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Which team are you from?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Which team?

Sasamaru: From...the red team.

Harutsuge: That's what I mean.

After saying this, Harutsuge goes silent.

Sasamaru: ...And even you, Araragi.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: What are you...

Araragi: We're from the red team. And Sasamaru-chan, you too are from the red team.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: That's what we mean.

Sasamaru: You mean...collective responsibility?

The two aren't answering this question.

Sasamaru: It's...it's not that, right? This is something I arbitrarily did, so...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: You two haven't done anything.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo too...right?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Why are you all silent? If you haven't done anything and still stay here, it's like you're all at fault, too.

No one is answering.
Everyone is simply sitting there without moving a muscle.

Hiyo: I'll always be by your side.

Sasamaru: But Hiyo...

Hiyo: Honey, as long as you don't say I'm "bothering" you, I'll stay here.

Just like that time when Hiyo said that.

Sasamaru: Stop it already!!

Unable to bear, I shout.

Sasamaru: This is my problem! It was I who was violent with them!

Sasamaru: I punched them! With these hands! I realized they were no match for me and still, I hurt them with these fists until they no longer could stand up!

Sasamaru: It was I who did what I shouldn't! You did nothing wrong! I'm in the wrong here!

That's right.

Sasamaru: I'm the..."bad kid"!!

My shout disappears into the silence.

Without anyone answering, it is vainly repainted by silence.

Just like that fake "white" that I painted over the "black."

Sasamaru: No...

Feelings welling up.

Sasamaru: I can't bear to have the "Four Noble Ones" tainted because of me!!

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I...

Harutsuge: Is that all you wanted to say?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Then, come here and sit down, too. This isn't a punishment where you must keep standing, is it?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge!!

Harutsuge: You said, "Four Noble Ones."

Harutsuge: Then, the bamboo's sin is also the plum blossom's sin.

Araragi: And also the orchid's.

Sasamaru: H...how's so!?

Harutsuge: There's no how. It's the "Four Noble Ones."

Sasamaru: Then, just cut it off! Just cut off the bamboo!

Yes, to begin with...

Sasamaru: Because I'm...not even a "bamboo."

No.

I must absolutely avoid them, the white, from being painted over with black.

"Absolutely."
"Absolutely"!!

Harutsuge: It doesn't matter if you're the bamboo or not.

But Harutsuge flatly says this.

Harutsuge: Even so, you're in the "Four Noble Ones."

Sasamaru: But why!? I'm a "bamboo grass," a "Sasa" and not a "bamboo."

Harutsuge: I opened my eyes.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: After hearing that "Suu Sasamaru got angry," I opened my eyes. From the bottom of my heart, I was furious at myself, putting distance with you for a trifling reason.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Even now, you're truly angry for our sake.

Sasamaru: But...of course I am.

Because you saved me.

I'm here now because you were there for me.

But this is all out of my convenience.

Harutsuge: I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: Eh?

I let out a dumb voice after her sudden words.

Harutsuge: What I wanted to say is just this.

Sasamaru: "Sorry," what's that about?

Araragi: Me too, sorry.

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Araragi: What I wanted to say is just this too.

Sasamaru: I...I don't know what you mean. What are you talking about?

The words that unbearably spill from my mouth are the same ones I said to Hiyo.

Harutsuge: You don't know what I mean. In short, you weren't even worried about it.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: That's why we're in this repentance room. Of course we are.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you got angry for our sake. If you're here because of this, we too should be here.

Sasamaru: You're...wrong, that's a...

Araragi: We're not wrong.

Sasamaru: ...But there should have been other ways. I was wrong.

Yes.
I'm wrong again.

I have no right to be together with them.

Araragi: Then, next time, let's think of a way together, okay?

Araragi: No. Let us think together, Sasamaru-chan. Next time, let's do it together.

Sasamaru: To...gether?

Araragi: Yea. I want to think together with you, Sasamaru-chan. I want to create the project together with you.

Sasamaru: Eh...

Harutsuge: Me too. I ask this while fully aware of how selfish this is, but...

Harutsuge: ...could you let me create the "red team's" project together with you?

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: It won't be the "red team's" project if it isn't together with you. I was finally able to accept this.

I don't know what they're saying.

I don't know, but...

Sasamaru: Uhh...

For some reason, the tears aren't stopping.

Sasamaru: Uh...uuhh, uhhhh...

Harutsuge: ...It's quite dark in here.

Araragi: It really is. So dark that I can't see anything.

Hiyo: You two.

Sasamaru: uuuh...uuhhh...

...Aah, it's very dark.

It's pitch dark.

There's no light.
The sun has risen.
There's also electric light.
But there's no illumination nor light.

Despite this, it's very warm.

Dear father.

Sasamaru: (This place is...very warm.)

If we're able to see each other again someday...

I...
want to talk about this with you while looking straight in your eyes.

Are you listening, dear father?

A few days later, we are finally allowed to return to the dorms.

Sasamaru: Everyone, sorry for making you keep me company.

After leaving the repentance room, I lower my head to everyone.

Harutsuge: Look here, Sasamaru-kun.

Despite feeling an overwhelming happiness at Harutsuge calling me by the same nickname from long ago...

Sasamaru: I know, but let me say it.

Harutsuge: ...Got it.

Hiyo: Hehe.

Araragi: Let's go together, then.

Harutsuge: To the water mill, right?

Harutsuge mischievously smiles.

Sasamaru: No, no. Let's return to the dorm for now.

Lured by them, I too smile.

They must be considerably tired from being in that place.

And tomorrow is a day off.
We must rest first.

Sasamaru: (Still, we wasted quite some time.)

Our project is already short on time.

Believing everyone would feel the same, I had originally made a schedule to "finish with four people."

After Aomai...
did that, I worked together with Hiyo and advanced the project considerably, but we're still drastically behind schedule.

We spent several days in that repentance room.

Sasamaru: What's that?

At this moment, a gust of wind suddenly appears.

A hanging banner is dancing in the air.

//text on screen
"With which color will you dye this pure world?"

The short-tempered autumn wind sometimes mixed with a chill...
is blowing up the Ayanashisai's slogan written in a hanging banner.

The catchphrase telling about the Yumemidori Academy's festival is dancing on the school building illuminated by the evening.

"With which color will you dye this pure world?"

These are the Ayanashisai's traditional words inherited every year.

Of course, the "festival" will play the leading actor on the appointed day, but, thinking about this school's nature, the period for the project creation is by no means a supporting role.

That's why the banner has already been hung, but...
with the catchword massively hoisted like this, it makes us feel that things are now serious.

Sasamaru: (That's right.)

It's blowing away my impatient feelings tinged with shadows.

I must think more positively.

I can finally create the project together with everyone.

Fulfilled feelings.
More than I deserve, these feelings lighten my pace.

So what if we're delayed?
We'll soon recover from this.

Sasamaru: (We'll recover this by working together.)

Don't underestimate the "Four Noble Ones."

//subchapter
The Grief of the Ash-Covered Princess
October 10 (Saturday)
With You, Here and Now,

But first, I'll have everyone rest for now.

And thus, on the day off that is today, I'm alone at the watermill.

I left after having breakfast with everyone. They won't mind my short absence.
I should simply come here again after returning for lunch.

Sasamaru: All right!

I focus and start the work.

I must recover the delay even a little.

Hiyo: Hehe. Let's do our best today.

Harutsuge: We must first grasp its contents. I'm counting on you.

Araragi: Please.

Sasamaru: Wait. Why on earth are you all here!?

When I turn over, all the red team members are present.

Harutsuge: What are you saying? You're the one who is mimicking me.

Araragi: What a coincidence.

Sasamaru: You should rest after what happened yesterday. It's the long-awaited day off.

Harutsuge: It's exactly because today's a day off that I want to work on the red team's project.

Araragi: We're on the same wavelength, Harutsuge-chan.

Sasamaru: Wait...Hiyo, tell them.

No, Hiyo too should rest today.

Hiyo: Honey, I may do as you say, but my persuasion probably won't change their feelings, okay?

She says this and happily smiles.

Sasamaru: Bu...but...

Pinning down the welling up happiness, I try to come up with some excuse.

Sasamaru: Ah, t-that's right. I must replenish the materials. So, unfortunately, we can't work toda...

Harutsuge: I'll carry those materials, then.

Sasamaru: No, wait a moment.

Harutsuge: It might be weird for me to say this, but I have more muscle than most men. Leave this to me.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Or rather, Sasamaru-kun. You can't lie, so, stop trying too hard.

Sasamaru: Trying too hard? I don't want you all to try too...

Harutsuge: There!

Sasamaru: Ouch! What was that for?

Harutsuge: I knew you'd be there. But I still kicked.

Sasamaru: What for?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan. We can finally work with you. Finally.

Araragi: We can't keep resting. We're so restless, we can't help it. We can no longer let this chance pass.

Araragi: So, don't call this, "trying too hard," okay?

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Please.

Sasamaru: ...I got it already.

I'm unable to say anything else.

I might cry again if I keep talking.

Harutsuge: I'm counting on you. Sasamaru-kun. Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: Treat us well.

Sasamaru: Sure.

Hiyo: Hehe. Then, let me explain the work...

Then, after finishing the explanations, we start the work.

...Or so we try.

Sasamaru: But it's kinda cramped in here with double the members. Let's tidy up first.

The fruits of our work so far are piled up everywhere in the room.

We were at our wits' end and didn't have time to properly clean it.

First, we must tidy up in order to work as usual.

Sasamaru: I'll go get the trash bags. You may start first.

Hiyo: Ah, I'll go get it.

Sasamaru: It's fine, it's fine. I'll go.

Hiyo: But...

Sasamaru: I'll bring in quantity. I'll go.

And while I'm speaking this...

Harutsuge: You should just go together.

Already working, Harutsuge mutters this.

Araragi: Right, right. You two should go~

And, for some reason, Araragi goes along with her.

Sasamaru: Ah, we don't need two people to do it.

Harutsuge: Leave this to us.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: Yessir! Leave this to the two newcomers here and take your time!

Sasamaru: Wait, I said two people don't have to...

Araragi: It's fine. Let us work a little bit.

Smiling while saying this, Araragi is somewhat regretful.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: What is it?

Harutsuge: I had a rough look, but aren't we greatly behind schedule?

Sasamaru: ...Well...

I'm startled.

Harutsuge: This is our responsibility.

Araragi: Yeah. If we had joined sooner...

Sasamaru: I-it's not that! I just made a reckless schedule...

Harutsuge: I'm sure you calculated it to {\i1}finish with four people.{\i0}

As if blocking my words, Harutsuge asserts this with a strong voice tone.

Harutsuge: Conversely, this means it's a calculation that {\i1}won't be finished without four people.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Wha...

Harutsuge: So, it's our responsibility. Let us work a little here.

Sasamaru: ...

They saw through me.
I was making light of their words of "let us work together."

Now that we're "working," go with full power.
It's natural they want to grasp the project's progress.

But, to be seen through so fast...

Hiyo: But then...all the more reason we can't keep idling away.

Yes, exactly.
I want Hiyo to rest, but I, the one who proposed it, can't keep resting.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. You too playing dumb?

Hiyo: Eh?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun calculated it to finish with four people. I'm sure this isn't a schedule that will only finish if we four overdo it.

Harutsuge: It's a calculation to finish if we work every day but while still having fun, isn't it?

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: But there were only you two. That's why the delay. This is obvious.

Harutsuge: But this progress is too fast if you had calculated with just two people. You're supposed to be more delayed.

Hiyo: Ah...

Harutsuge: In short, you two pushed yourselves too hard to advance this far.

Harutsuge: So, we are asking you two to rest a little.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo is without words...

Sasamaru: ...

...and so am I.

Harutsuge: Well, just take a little break {\i1}while{\i0} doing your errands at the school. Don't fret about it.

Araragi: We're sorry. We'll do our best!

Harutsuge: Yes. We're really sorry.

It is possible to reply to her excuse.

But I can feel a strong consideration in their words.

Sasamaru: Well...but...

I too am at a loss for words.

Hiyo: B-but still...

Hiyo too is feeling this.
It's unusual for her to hesitate.

Harutsuge: You too, Hiyo-kun. Take a break.

Hiyo: But j-just the t-two of us on a day off...just the t-two of us on a date and, like, just the two of us...

Harutsuge: Yeah, there's one single girl greatly misunderstanding the nuance, but...well, that's what I mean.

Harutsuge: Have fun.

Araragi: Have a safe trip <3

In the end, we accepted their offer.

Although, we were almost driven out.

Well...
then.

We are now taking a sudden rest we weren't dreaming of.

Sasamaru: Hmm.

Well, they did say to have fun, but...

I'm happy for their consideration, but I'm really clumsy in how to spend my day off.

I noticed this very clearly when I was living at my aunt's house.

It's like I can't quite include a pastime in my everyday life. It's like what I end up doing isn't that different from weekdays.

Since I was a kid, I never got used to "have a good time" and can't grasp this feeling very well.

I often hear the phrase "the children's work is to have fun," but I was raised without doing this "work."

Even so, I'm much better compared to those days, but I'm still not used to this "day off to myself."

Sasamaru: What should we do?

Then, I pass it to Hiyo.

Hiyo: I-i-if it's with you, honey, anywhere is fine.

Sasamaru: ...?

I don't get it, but Hiyo too doesn't want to go anywhere in particular?

Sasamaru: Well then...our destination is decided, so, let's go there while taking a detour. If we spend time on the way, it'll be around evening when we return.

Hiyo: I-I-I think that's a splendid idea for a date!

...Date?

Yes, now that she mentioned it, a man and a woman spending a day off together does seem like a date.

Sasamaru: (Hmmm.)

I should renew my feelings.

Sasamaru: All right! It's a date, then!

Hiyo: I-Ies!

I wonder if I'm allowed this once in a while.

Maybe not me, but Hiyo has worked hard with me all this time.

I'll use the opportunity that Harutsuge said that and strive to please Hiyo until we return to the water mill.

I'll try to make her relax, even if a little.

Sasamaru: You might not be comfortable with me as a partner, but I'll accompany you to the best of my ability.

Hiyo: N-n-n-no, no, d-d-do-don't mention.

Hiyo: I-I-I-I-I-I might be inexperienced, but please treat me welltreatmewe...

Sasamaru: Hey, you just bit your tongue right now. You okay?

Hiyo: Completely and completely fi-fin...

I'll start by wiping her blood.

And this is how the first date of my life starts.

Sasamaru: Well, my lady. Is there any place you would like to visit?

Hiyo: Eeeeerrrr, any place you want is fine.

Ouch.
A mistake right at the start. I'm making no progress.

Sasamaru: Okay, let's go over there, then.

Hiyo: Yes.

We move over there!

Sasamaru: Wow, what a nice view.

Hiyo: I-i-it really is, isn't it?

Sasamaru: Okay, let's go over here now.

Hiyo: Yes.

We move over here!

Sasamaru: Wow, this is a superb view.

Hiyo: I-i-i-indeed, it's just as you say.

Sasamaru: ...

Hey, me. Get a clue already.

Sasamaru: (Oh, no. I'm already worn out.)

I heard experience means everything in times like these.

I knew it'd be hard to escort her on the first date of my life.

Sasamaru: Ah.

How about there?
I think the view is great over there.

Sasamaru: Hiyo. How about going to the connecting hallway?

Hiyo: Y-yes. I too was thinking of going there just now.

We move over there!

...Nah, enough already.

The wind passing through here is...
pleasant.

Though, it's a bit chilly due to the place being in the mountains.
Still, the feeling of the clear air touching my skin is very pleasant.

Sasamaru: Hey, look over there, Hiyo!

The view from the connecting hallway is great.

And now, in order to enliven the date, I forcefully raise the tension.

Sasamaru: Look!
...Only withered trees, right?

But this seedy scenery catches the eyes exactly because the view is great.

So, this place too was a mistake.

Sasamaru: Sorry there, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: This is my first date. It's boring, isn't it?

Hiyo: ...

Hey, Hiyo. You're speechless.

Hiyo: Honey, so, you are really treating this as a date...

Hiyo: Also, the first date...your f-first partner is the likes of me...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: T-this is so fun! I-I'm having so much fun! Ah, what do I do!? This is too fun!

//text on screen
Sweat

She's forcing it so much.
No, she's in a different character.

Sasamaru: (What a pickle. Isn't there any good ideas?)

As a man, it's quite pathetic to keep looking around restlessly at a time like this.

Hiyo: This place is great.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: This place is fine for me.

Saying this, Hiyo leans against the handrail.

Sasamaru: ...

Again, I'm making her be considerate.

Again, I mimic Hiyo and lean against the handrail, as if I had given up.

Sasamaru: ...This scenery is so lonely.

I mutter this.

Sasamaru: Everyone may have gotten used to this, but, for me, this scenery is very lonely.

That's why...

Sasamaru: "Hanasaka Jiji," eh.

I understand well the old man's feelings of wanting to make flowers bloom on the withered trees.

Hiyo: Which reminds me, why was the object that made the flowers bloom on the withered trees "ashes"?

Sasamaru: Well...putting it simply, the story has the aspect of repaying the dog's favor. It might be expressing the "even dead or turned to ashes, the dog repays the owner's favor."

Hiyo: So, you say there's meaning in it being the "dog's ashes" and not just "ashes."

Sasamaru: No, I might be simply wanting to put meaning to an old story, but I think there's meaning in the "ashes" itself. Thorough the world, the anecdote of the Phoenix says that it arises from ashes.

Sasamaru: In the case of ghosts from sea accidents, they can't go to heaven despite having died in the sea, which is rich in salt. So, they prepare a purification ash because the purification salt had no effect.

Hiyo: If you're talking about a global example, there's the Catholic Church's "Ash Wednesday."

Sasamaru: Yeah. There's also Cinderella, who is a metaphor for being covered in ashes. In the end, she lives happily with the prince.

Hiyo: There's Cinderella Boy and Cinderella Story. Yes, Cinderella sure is a symbol of unexpected happiness.

Sasamaru: Yes. Cinderella is famous as a European story, but China also has a similar story about the Sǎo huī niáng. For a long time, ashes changed from "something holy" and were often treated as a "symbol of happiness."

...Oops.

Sasamaru: Sorry. This is no different from our every day, is it?

I suddenly return to my senses.
Since long ago, I start talking like this when I'm alone with Hiyo.

Hiyo: No. It's very enjoyable to talk about this with you, honey.

Sasamaru: I-is that so?

Hiyo: Yes. We two are able to chat like this. I'm always...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: N-no, it's nothing.

Sasamaru: ...?

I start speaking non-stop when talking about these topics. I feel awkward because it's like I just want to show off my knowledge.

This becomes a conversation because it's with Hiyo, who knows much more than me. But it's a great mistake to think I can chat about this with anyone.

Sasamaru: Let's get going, then.

Hiyo: Yes, honey.

Hiyo: (Cinderella, eh.)

Magic words.

Aah, the pitiful Cinderella, the Ash-Covered Princess.

The splendid dress bringing out her beauty and the lovely pumpkin carriage that carried her to the ball were created with magic words.

She was a girl always dirty with ashes.
And what changed these ashes into a "symbol of happiness" were the chanted magic words.

But I think like this.

The magic words weren't chanted "in order to produce something convenient."

They were chanted "in order to change the 'environment so far.'"

For Cinderella, those were dark days covered in ashes.

With magic words, this changed, and she obtained the world she yearned for.

Hiyo: Let's play house?

Those were my magic words.

Changing the "environment so far" and guiding me to the world I yearned for.
My "ashes."

But I knew.

In the same way that the spell cast on Cinderella wears off at midnight...

...the effect of these magic words also has an end.

I knew that the magic words I chanted would someday come to an end.

I walk around the school while chatting with Hiyo. But, honestly, I think, "is it okay like this?"

The sun has started to sink into the west mountains, when the sunset dyes the surroundings.

Quite some time has passed. We should finish our business and return to the water mill.

Sasamaru: (Dating is hard.)

Well, I know it's not something to think hard about.

Sasamaru: (Though, I don't know of any good places.)

It's too late to talk about my lack of tact. But leaving this aside, Hiyo is my senior at this school.
The places I know should be known by everyone.

Personally, there are several places I feel, "this is very nice." But I won't please her by taking her to places I discovered on my first days of school.

Sasamaru: (No, wait a minute.)

I start thinking over, when a place that "perhaps Hiyo doesn't know it" crosses my mind.

I found this place by coincidence when I went around the school for the preliminary arrangements to the project I proposed.

Sasamaru: Hiyo. There's a place I want to drop by. Wanna come?

Hiyo: Yes, of course.

Sasamaru: Sorry there. It's already this late.

Hiyo: Don't mention it. I'm happy just by being like this. Don't mind it.

It's a bit before five p.m.

We'll be right on time if we head there now.

Hiyo: Let's play house?

Those were my magic words.

Hiyo: A bride.

When I spoke out, I felt it as very distant words.

How should I express this feeling?
Ah, yes. In a novel I read, there was an expression that said, "like the clouds that I can't reach even if I stretch my hand."

No, clouds are just lumps of ice crystals drifting in the atmosphere.

They are fine water droplets and ice crystals produced by chilling humid air.
These things that can be called cloud grains are smaller and lighter than raindrops.
It's hundreds of times smaller in diameter and millions of times smaller in volume.

So, these cloud grains fall extremely slowly, different from raindrops. They appear to be endlessly drifting in the atmosphere because even a gentle wind pushes them back.

In short, it's the same principle that makes our breaths white in midwinter.

So, there are no "unreachable clouds."

If you breathe out in a closed room at a low temperature...
you produce a cloud there.

If you want your hand to reach the clouds, just hold your hand there.
That's all there is.

Hiyo: (Ah.)

...I must not {\i1}do this.{\i0}
I make an awkward smile at my bad habit.

Hiyo: (If I can be like him...)

If I can be...better...
become better...
able to change...

Then, I wonder if that cloud will become an "unreachable cloud."

If I can recognize it like this, I wonder if that cloud will "someday become a reachable cloud."

Thinking like this, I stretch my hand and...

...as if thrusting me away, a cold wind softly caresses my cheek.

I heard that "this room became a storeroom as a result."

Its purpose was originally different, but it became a storeroom out of nowhere.

The shelves are strangely placed due to a vestige of the past. This appears like it's a project that uses the room itself, by passing something between the shelves positioned in a circle and hanging countless paper lanterns from the ceiling.

But, honestly, I don't know.
This is how an artist's project is.

In any case, this room was unable to become a "project," maybe due to the creator abandoning it before its completion, getting bored on the way, or making a mistake. Eventually, it started being used as a temporary storage room for nearby luggage.

Then, it was completely filled with luggage before everyone knew. And they were unable to move the shelves in order to restore the room to its former state.

They planned for a large-scale sorting of the room, but the luggage isn't used much, so, they kept postponing this.

And thus, a room with a very curious scenery was created.
Well, it's very fitting for an art school.

Sasamaru: Good. We're on time.

I confirm the time.

Hiyo: "The fate of the abandoned"?

Hiyo speaking the room's name means she too knows about this room.

It's famous as a place for piling up nonsensical objects. I heard the name stuck after someone named it "the fate of the abandoned."

They end up like this because the creators couldn't finish them. It is the fate of the abandoned "projects."
It's a room that makes us feel sympathy exactly because we are aspiring to become artists.

It is a secret exactly because it's such a room.
I'm sure even Hiyo doesn't know this.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, look here.

I say this and look up to the ceiling. Lured by me, she too raises her gaze.

Hiyo: A...butterfly.

Hiyo gasps at the scenery drawn there.

A product of coincidence.

Objects piled up on top of an abandoned shelf.
And the evening sunlight.

Not even one of these was on purpose. The piled-up coincidences create this silhouette.

Sasamaru: Yeah. Doesn't this butterfly look like the school's emblem?

Our school's emblem is a butterfly.

It displays the name of the Yumemidori Academy, just like the embroidery at the shoulder of my dress shirt.

Hiyo: It sure is. It's exactly like the school's emblem.

"Yumemidori," which is another word for butterfly and literally means 'dreaming bird.'
This is the butterfly's alias.

Like the chrysalises which are us will eventually become butterflies and fly the skies...
spreading the beautiful wings and charming everyone.

This is the school's emblem, symbolizing the schoolhouse sending butterflies into the world.

Sasamaru: "Psyche."

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: In Greek legends, there's a goddess whose name means "butterfly." A goddess who was once a human, with beauty that even Aphrodite, the goddess of beauty, was envious of.

Sasamaru: Her name means "butterfly" and also "soul."

Hiyo: Soul?

Sasamaru: Yes...no, perhaps it's better if I say that it means "butterfly" because it means "soul."

Sasamaru: Because the butterfly is a symbol of resurrection not only in Greece but also in Christianity...and also here in Japan. Since long ago, they say that the black butterflies flying on the Bon Festival have the spirits of the dead, or that night butterflies are the messengers of the dead.

Hiyo: It's related to soul all over the world, isn't it?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Did you know about this, Hiyo?

Hiyo: N-no. I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: Okay.

Perhaps Hiyo says this in consideration because I talked in a proud tone.

But this isn't what I want to tell her.

Sasamaru: So...this butterfly drawn out of piled-up coincidences is...

Still, I scratch my head in embarrassment when it's the time to say it.

Sasamaru: How do I say...I feel like it's projecting this school's soul.

Hiyo: The school's...soul?

Sasamaru: Yeah...you may laugh, though.

Sasamaru: After enrolling here, I...felt the high pride of the students. When I say pride, I don't mean it in a bad way. Like their self-respect...or self-confidence.

Sasamaru: The responsibility of having been chosen and the attitude of working hard without being haughty about their talents.

Sasamaru: I think that this school, shouldering all this, has something similar to a soul. The Yumemidori Academy, fascinating artists' aspirants like us. The target of envy. The sacred mountain of yearning.

Sasamaru: This is like a creed. But I don't mean it in a religious way. It's a place that gathers the people's noble but pure hearts.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: So, the shadow projected here...and its shape...

Hiyo: ...is the shape of...Yumemidori Academy's soul?

Sasamaru: This room...the "fate of the abandoned" is a negative example for us. We start one project, abandon it halfway, and become hooked on another project that caught our interest.

Sasamaru: Of course, there are times when things don't go well. When this happens, you destroy the project, or start anew in order to redo it. There are a multitude of reasons to abandon an undertaken project before it becomes a "project."

Sasamaru: And both positive and negative reasons.

Sasamaru: All this is what this room is teaching us. It's exactly because everyone sympathizes with it that it's making us remind of our "original intention" when starting a project.

Hiyo: Original intention?

Sasamaru: Yeah. That seething urge when you start creating.

Sasamaru: It's always reminding us of the original intention. When you're crushed by feelings of anxiety, when fumbling forward; when you're drowned by impatience, when things don't go well.

Sasamaru: "Didn't you have something to express when starting this project?"

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: And the school's soul emerges in the lessons of this room.

Sasamaru: In this deserted place hidden from the human eye...but it's for this same reason that you feel this was naturally made by everyone's feelings and not intentionally created by someone.

Sasamaru: Like the "obstinacy" of a creator.

I myself feel embarrassed saying this, but...

...I wanted to introduce this place that I discovered to Hiyo because I don't mind if I'm laughed at.

Hiyo: How beautiful.

Hiyo mutters this with somewhat absentminded eyes.

Sasamaru: Sure.

I'm glad.

Sasamaru: Yeah. I too think this is a beautiful place.

Hiyo: No, not the place.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Ah, wait...i-it's a very beautiful place, isn't it?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

I'm relieved.
Looks like Hiyo is happy.

A coincidental silhouette interwoven by the school's structure and the sun's angle.

A butterfly.

{\i1}Now that he mentioned it{\i0}, it does look like the school's emblem.
I can grasp it as something visually similar to the emblem.

But I {\i1}can never think like that.{\i0}

Hiyo: ...

This is frustrating.

He can have a beautiful idea like that and...
I...

Why I...

...as if I was thrust away...

...as if telling me I have no right to be beside him...

Hiyo: (Why can't I do that!?)

When I close my eyes, that butterfly drawn on the wall appears.

Along with a sigh, the butterfly flies toward the skies.

Sasamaru: (H-huh?)

While she was there, Hiyo seemed to be enjoying herself.

I felt she was still being considerate, though not at all displeased, but...

Sasamaru: (Isn't she...feeling sad?)

But why?
Why?
Doushite?

Sasamaru: (Did I mess up?)

It's my special place that came up after thinking deeply, very deeply about it.

As I thought...
dating is hard.

Araragi: Ah, welcome back.

Harutsuge: Did you have fun? Tenderly?

Sasamaru: Shut up, sexual harassment chief.

I think we did okay.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: Hey, Sasamaru-kun. No, Sasamaru.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: What did you do to Hiyo-kun?

After following Harutsuge's gaze...

...I see Hiyo looking downward.
Ah, well...

Araragi: Y-you can't do that, Sasamaru-chan! You must follow the proper order! Girls are very fragile!

Sasamaru: Eh, ah, it's not tha...

Hiyo: I-it's not that! He did...nothing wrong.

Despite protecting me, Hiyo is...
letting out words while holding something back.

Wait a minute. That's having the opposite effect.

Harutsuge: ...

Look, here it is.
She's glaring at me.
She's glaring so much now.

Harutsuge: It's fine now, Hiyo-kun. I'm sure it was harsh. Come here and rest a little.

Hiyo: Well, umm...

Harutsuge: I already know about your kind personality. But you don't have to defend that {\i1}brute{\i0}.

Hiyo: No...I mean, he didn't...

Harutsuge: I know, I know.

Wait a moment.
Just what on earth did you conclude?

Harutsuge: I'll talk to Sasamaru-kun later.

It feels like a mutter, but that antenna girl is threatening so much?

Don't look at me with that evil eye activated.
Are you going to curse me to death?
You got it wrong.

But it's a fact that my lack of experience with dating made Hiyo feel sad.
No wonder she's criticizing me.

Sasamaru: Sorry. I'll be more upright.

Araragi: Eh.

Sasamaru: It's because I wasn't used to it.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: ...And it was just a joke.

Sasamaru: Eh!? It was a joke!?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. Let's go to the back of the gymnasium later. At all costs. No, let's go right now.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan. You must follow the proper order here.

Sasamaru: No, well...

Araragi: Listen to me.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Araragi: Look. I hear boys often have the practical thinking of "we'll be doing it anyway," but the proper order is veeery important to girls. The main point is the process.

Araragi: All right? Girls are very bothersome. But you must not lay your hands until you can understand this bothersomeness. This is what it means to be an adult man, okay?

Sasamaru: T-that makes sense.

Araragi: Then, pinky promise.

Sasamaru: ...Okay.

Overwhelmed by this abiding air, I hold out my little finger.

Araragi: Pinky promise. If you tell a lie...

Harutsuge: I'll bend that little finger in an amusing direction.

Araragi: It's a promise!

I...I think there was a strange verse mixed in just now.

Araragi: All right? This is our promise, okay?

Sasamaru: Yes.

I don't want my finger bent in an amusing direction.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry for everything.

Araragi: Yup. As long as you understand. Though, there's no persuasiveness if someone without experience like me says it.

What is this? Somehow I can't consent to this.
But the air is criticizing me. What should I do at a time like this?

Hiyo: Umm...

Sasamaru: Yes?

Hiyo: I-I'm okay if it's you, honey.

Hiyo: I-I don't care about p-proper order.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Ah...err...

Thanks, Hiyo.
She's being thoughtful so they don't criticize me.

But it's fine. You don't have to volunteer yourself like that.
Looks like this will calmly settle if I become the villain, right?

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. It's no use. You mustered your courage, but you're not making sense.

Harutsuge: Just look at him. I'm sure he's thinking: "Thanks, Hiyo. She's being thoughtful so they don't criticize me."

Harutsuge: In addition, he must be thinking: "But it's fine. You don't have to volunteer yourself like that." Ptui.

//text on screen
Ptui

Hey, why are the clouds shrouding again? Wasn't this calmly settling itself?

Wait, Harutsuge. You just spit right now, didn't you? Didn't you?

Harutsuge: Ah, I'll just punch him. Punch him hard. I'll help all-out now. No, let me punch him.

Sasamaru: And why are you so lively?

I think you're like, "I just wanna punch. I don't care whom."

Are you violent? Is your every day violent? Are you all hurrah for fights, you bastard!

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: W-what now?

I'm staring while thinking this, when Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun is raping me with his eyes. What do I do?

Sasamaru: Wait right there, sexual harassment queen! Just when did I look at you like that!?

Harutsuge: Now. And yesterday. And also two days ago.

Araragi: Eh? E-every day?

Harutsuge: Yea...

Wow. What's that face? Isn't that unfair?

Araragi: Hmmmm. Sasamaru-chan has more than enough youthfulness, it seems~

Harutsuge: Well...that worries me.

Dammit, they set me up.

Everything the man says is useless now.
It's useless.
The victimized caste always has female supremacy.

Well, but...

Hiyo: ...?

I'm glad Hiyo is back to her normal self.

On that night...

Sasamaru: ...

I wonder when was the last time I returned to the dorm feeling like this.

I feel that all this is dazzling, as if everything was giving a different impression.

A lot happened, but...
we finally started "creating the project with everyone."

I returned to my room, but I'm now outside again.

I can't show up at the dining table until I soothe my excitation a little.

Harutsuge: What's with that face of "the streets look so different today" on the day you lose your virginity?

Sasamaru: Whoa!?

Harutsuge: What's that "whoa" for? How rude.

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry...hey, stop approaching me without making any sounds.

Harutsuge: I don't know why I must not make sounds at my own dorm. You simply were so absorbed in something that you didn't notice me.

Sasamaru: I-is that so?

Still, why did Harutsuge change into her uniform? She was in plain clothes a while ago.

Harutsuge: Yes, it is. And even if I didn't make any sounds, you'd promptly sense me.

Harutsuge: Well, whatever. Anyway, sit there.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Just sit there.

Sasamaru: O-okay.

I sit down as I'm told.

Harutsuge seems somewhat...nervous. Or maybe tense.

Sasamaru: Err, but this is the ground.

Harutsuge: Then, use a thin-air chair. It'll work to strengthen the muscles. It's two birds with one stone.

Sasamaru: Look, research tells us that this isometric exercise isn't suitable for strengthening the muscles because it places a burden on the knee joints, just like the bunny hop.

Harutsuge: Tch. Then, don't place your back on the wall in order to increase the difficulty as much as possible.

Sasamaru: Did you listen to me?

Harutsuge: I'm joking. Just be in a comfortable position.

Sasamaru: Okay...I'll do so, then.

We walk to the hallway and sit on the veranda.

It must be my imagination for feeling something strange...but it's the usual Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: And what is this abou...

At this moment...

...I feel fingers touching my shoulders.

Sasamaru: Ha-Harutsuge?

Harutsuge, who went behind me, is softly massaging my shoulders.

Harutsuge: ...Good work.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: After looking at the work you did so far, I can tell how much you were pushing yourselves.

Sasamaru: We weren't...pushing ourselves.

Harutsuge: You were, weren't you?

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: Then, go to Hiyo and not m...

Harutsuge: I already went.

Sasamaru: I-is that so...

Harutsuge: And she said the same as you.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Harutsuge: This is what I mean.

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: ...You're lying, right?

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, your right hand's little finger always twitch when you lie.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...Why is it me?

Harutsuge: I wonder why.

Harutsuge: I just thought that...I have to massage your shoulders.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: If you want...I can give you a sexual massage without Hiyo and the others knowing.

Sasamaru: And where did you get that topic from!?

Harutsuge: ...So, I'm no good.

Sasamaru: Wait, why are you feeling down now!? You're very charming, you know?

Harutsuge: I don't need consolation. I'm aware of my own value as a woman.

Sasamaru: No, no, no. Listen here.

Harutsuge: I'm a woman of boobs only anyway. Shit, Sasamaru, die already.

Sasamaru: You just vented your anger just now, didn't you!?

Harutsuge: No, I didn't vent it. I simply punched a sandbag like always.

Sasamaru: I just heard...some violent words.

Harutsuge: But I read in a certain academic book that a woman's soft, fair skin has the effect of calming down men.

Sasamaru: Your academic book is actually an erotic book, isn't it?

Harutsuge: Wait, listen. Even a boob woman has a woman's skin. It might have some effect if you close your eyes.

Sasamaru: Wait, listen to me.

Harutsuge: Keep this a secret from Hiyo-kun and Araragi-kun. No matter what.

Sasamaru: Hey, why are their names appearing here!?

Harutsuge: Damn thickheaded king. Who'd have thought you had this much strength.

She says this again.

Since long ago, Harutsuge has called me "thickheaded" many, many times.

Yes, I myself am aware that I'm bad at guessing.

Sasamaru: Or rather, Harutsuge. You're not the type to joke about that, right?

Harutsuge: And you can't see through a woman's mask. I feel your thickheaded power further increasing.

Sasamaru: Mask? First, what's thickheaded power?

Harutsuge: Increasing more...and still rising.

Sasamaru: You ignored even this one?

Harutsuge: Whoa. My sc**ter just broke!?

Sasamaru: Just how much did my thickheaded power rise?

Harutsuge: 1, 10, 100, 1000, 10.000, 100......by the way, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: You just got worn out now. You brought up the topic, but lost interest in it halfway.

Harutsuge: First, it's my habit when lying. You sure have your eyes on me.

Sasamaru: Well, the only matters I boast about...are the ones regarding you all.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: What is it?

Harutsuge: So, you're the type who naturally hits on women.

Sasamaru: No idea what you mean.

Harutsuge: Not knowing the meaning is the proof itself.

Nngh.

Harutsuge: How do I say...I feel that I'm depraved when I look at you.

Sasamaru: What's that about?

Harutsuge: I mean that you're straightforward. All the time, since long ago.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: ...Sasamaru-kun. May I tell you about my dream?

Harutsuge's dream?

Sasamaru: But of course.

Harutsuge: Thanks.

I naturally correct my posture.

Harutsuge: ...The truth is...my dream is...

With her hands on my shoulders, Harutsuge puts strength in them.

Harutsuge's dream.
Which reminds me, she has never told me this.

I heard about everyone's vague dream of "wanting to become an artist," but if she wants to say it, it must be something more concrete.

Harutsuge is a reliable adult.

She is more down to earth than anyone and looking straight ahead.
This is Kashi Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: My dream is...

She's putting more strength into her fingertips.

I wonder if this is...
the passionate spirit that only youthful dreamers have.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: My dream is...
to become a witch.

Sasamaru: Hey, why the hell did you come to this school!? Wait, why are you blushing!?

Harutsuge: I've yearned for Hiyo-kun for so long. I have a soft spot for her.

Sasamaru: Let's calm down and think. I mean, that premise is rude to Hiyo, okay?

Harutsuge: But isn't Hiyo-kun a bit witch-y? I've been feeling this ever since we met.

Sasamaru: So, you've been rude to her for quite a long time, eh.

Harutsuge: I'm a manly woman, as you see. I know I won't reach her no matter how much I yearn, but...

Sasamaru: I feel you're speaking with a hint of humility, but there's so much strangeness here. Notice this already.

Harutsuge: My feelings get stronger because they'll never reach her.

Sasamaru: So, you continue even when I jab, eh. So, you simply want to tell your story.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...It's okay. Continue.

Harutsuge: But I've grown bored already.

Sasamaru: What's all that freedom about!? How much truth was in the story just now!?

Harutsuge: It's 100% true.

Sasamaru: oh...

Harutsuge: And you're so cute for shutting up after I say this.

Sasamaru: Let's change topics already. Don't worry. Teasing others like that means you're a great witch.

Harutsuge: REALLY!?

Sasamaru: And why are you more tense now!?

Harutsuge: Eeh, really? Wow, err, wow, that's like, wait, stop it. I'm blushing.

Sasamaru: (So, the story about admiring witches was true.)

Harutsuge: Sasamarun♪ So, may I give you a tiny bit of sexual massage?

Sasamaru: Wait, I've never heard that nickname before. I mean, your character is truly broken now.

Harutsuge: But I heard that being lewd is indispensable for becoming a witch.

Sasamaru: Well...that's true. In all ages and countries, the ones called "witches" always have that element.

Harutsuge: Right?

Sasamaru: (Who'd have thought this was the reason for Harutsuge to be an erotic queen.)

Harutsuge: To my embarrassment, all my knowledge comes only from books.

Sasamaru: Don't be embarrassed. And have more self-respect, too.

Harutsuge: But this is necessary to become a witch. It's for this reason that I want to become an artist.

Sasamaru: I can't see your point.

Harutsuge: You're so silly. Then, let me ask you, Sasamaru-kun. What is art?

Sasamaru: ...A deep question out of the blue, eh.

Harutsuge: Then, let me rephrase it. What is the first thing that comes to your mind when you think about art?

Sasamaru: Hmm, hmmmm...

Harutsuge: A nude sketch, right?

Sasamaru: Are you a male student who doesn't have interest in arts but comes to peek only on that day!?

Harutsuge: Is there another advantage in aspiring to become an artist?

Sasamaru: She bluntly asserted it.

Harutsuge: Aspire to become an artist → nude sketch tee-hee → become a witch.

Sasamaru: I think that three-step logic doesn't hold true. Or rather, apologize to all artists in the world.

Harutsuge: Are you denying my life plan?

Sasamaru: Wait, what will you do after becoming a witch?

Harutsuge: You can do anything after becoming a witch.

Sasamaru: Then, what is that "anything"?

Harutsuge: Listen very well, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Huh? Yeah.

Harutsuge: I'll become a witch and...
become an artist through the power of magic.

Sasamaru: You still want to become an artist! Why has something completely different become your final objective!?

...Jeez.

Harutsuge: Well, that's how I feel. Are your shoulders better?

Sasamaru: Eh...yeah. Thanks to you.

Harutsuge: That's good.

Despite saying this, Harutsuge continues the massage.

Sasamaru: It's fine now, thanks.

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Sasamaru: ...Hmm? You may stop now.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...Hmm?

Harutsuge: ...Sorry for everything.

Sasamaru: Haru...

Harutsuge: I'm...sorry.

Sasamaru: (Harutsuge.)

The almost muttered words soak deep into my chest.

This is the reason I was feeling Harutsuge strange.

Changed into her school uniform, Harutsuge is focusing in her own way.

For a while, I indulge myself in Harutsuge's kindness.

Huh, how strange.

The tip of my nose is hot.

Sasamaru: (...I'm glad.)

I'm glad I worked hard.
I'm glad I didn't give up.
I'm glad I persisted with my belief.
The days until now weren't in vain.

I'm really happy.

//subchapter
Maiden in Love
October 13 (Tuesday)
With You, Here and Now,

Sasamaru: Well then, let's go.

Hiyo: Yes, honey.

Araragi: Departure!

Harutsuge: Depanties!

Our school road has become lively.

The orchid, the bamboo, the chrysanthemum, and the plum blossom.
The "Four Noble Ones" are all gathered.

Ah, I'll report here that I ignored Harutsuge's joke.
It's so high level that I can't deal with it.

Sasamaru: Oh yeah. I think I understand a little about the meaning of "this school's student council is a mysterious existence" that you spoke about the other day.

Hiyo: Why is that?

Sasamaru: You see, it was Waka-san who came when I caused that accident. Thinking calmly, isn't that the duty of the teachers?

Araragi: I sometimes see her giving instructions to the teachers.

Sasamaru: The student council?

That's unexpected...
or rather, I'm quite surprised.

Sasamaru: (What power relationship is that?)

The "transparent student council" really is a mysterious organization.

Sasamaru: Hey, Harutsuge.

When I look beside me, Harutsuge suddenly...

Harutsuge: Toi-Mone-Aguyoi-Wo...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Ra-Sohairu-Atoiamio-Nitsunarua...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge?

Hiyo: T-this song is...

Araragi: Don't tell me...!

Eh...

Harutsuge: "Now."

Now?

Harutsuge: I just randomly said words that came to me.

Hiyo: Yes, of course you did.

Araragi: I knew that.

Yes, I too knew that.
Our team work is perfect.

Harutsuge: Yeah. Let's keep it like this and win the first place.

I don't get it, but no objections. I completely agree.

Harutsuge: But if the "transparent student council" is really "transparent," I too want to become a member.

Araragi: But why?

Harutsuge: Because I can peep.

Sasamaru: What a cheap idea. And she can declare it like a man.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san is talking with the nuance of a "transparent person," but a real transparent person can't see.

Hiyo: The whole body is made of transparent material. This means that the eye's refractive index is the same as the air's. So, the light won't be seized by the retina. It'll simply pass through it.

Harutsuge: Sure. By the way, when does the student council recruit their members?

Araragi: She didn't listen to Hiyo-chan's kind explanation.

Sasamaru: Her desires won here.

Araragi: But yes, we don't know how the student council recruits their members. Seems they don't hold any elections.

Sasamaru: Even that is a mystery?

The more I hear, the more the mystery deepens.

Sasamaru: If they're so mysterious, they might be lax instead. Deciding with a ladder lottery or something.

Araragi: That's too much.

Sasamaru: But the sixth generation shogun from the Muromachi shogunate was decided by lottery.

Araragi: Eh? I-is that true?

Harutsuge: Hmmm. I'll forget about the student council. I'll just honestly win first place as the red team.

Sasamaru: Where's your determination from a moment ago?

Give me back my excitement.

Harutsuge: I heard that since long ago, the booby prize is so gorgeous that it rivals the first prize.

Araragi: Booby prize is the second one from below, right? I can understand if it were the last one, but why the second?

Sasamaru: Yeah. It's because many people were targeting the last place.

Araragi: Really?

Sasamaru: "Booby" means the last place. Originally, it didn't have the meaning of "second to last." So, the booby prize was given to the last place.

Sasamaru: But you can aim for the last place. The booby prize was becoming more and more gorgeous year after year. And more people wanting this prize appeared.

Sasamaru: So, they placed the booby prize in the harder-to-get "second to last" position. The fact that the prize is gorgeous is a remnant of this.

Araragi: Nice. Sasamaru-chan's bits of knowledge are impressive as always.

Harutsuge: But, Sasamaru-kun. You said it's "hard to get." But you can easily get the booby prize with two teams. Just monopolize the last and second-to-last places.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Harutsuge: You're still ways behind.

Hiyo: He is a pure gentleman. He isn't naturally cunning like you.

Harutsuge: All right, Araragi-kun. After we graduate, let's participate in all and every tournament and become the "booby breakers." We'll split the prizes.

Araragi: I wonder why we enrolled here.

Harutsuge: But why did the last place's prize become a gorgeous one?

Sasamaru: Yeah. In Japan, there's the idea of "granting a chance to the weak ones."

Araragi: So, it's just in Japan that the booby prize is the second-to-last one.

Harutsuge: The Zipangu is filled with love.

Sasamaru: That "Zipangu" is the word "Rì​běnguó" that Marco Polo heard and wrote in "The Travels of Marco Polo."

Sasamaru: It became the root word for several words like the Italian "Giaponne" and, of course, the English "Japan."

Araragi: There are so many.

Sasamaru: There are several ones here too. "Yamato," "Fusang," and "Akitsushima."

Araragi: I have no idea what Sasamaru-chan is saying.

Harutsuge: Don't worry. The only one who can keep up when Sasamaru-kun's skill "bits of knowledge" activates is Hiyo-kun. You normally don't get it.

Hiyo: There are also "Ooyashima-no-Kuni," "Toyoashihara-no-Mizuho-no-Kuni," and "Ashihara-no-Nakatsukuni."

Harutsuge: There you go.

Sasamaru: "Ashihara-no-Nakatsukuni" is perceived as a mix of legends and history. From this point of view, there's a theory that the administrative lands of the Izumo faction were called this by other factions.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Yes, it was the administrative lands of the Izumo faction even before the "Emperor Jinmu's eastern expedition." But there's also the theory that the Uchitsukuni was called that along with the establishment of Yamato's royalty.

...Oops.

Hiyo is looking downward with an apologetic face.

Sasamaru: Hiyo? What's wrong?

Hiyo: Ah, well, I...

Hiyo is strangely in panic for some reason.

Hiyo: Ah, that's right. I have to study about the byproduct obtained as a result of coal's dry distillation in coke manufacture!

After speaking this, Hiyo runs away with a staggering vigor toward who-knows-where.

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo?

Harutsuge: Ah, she must have gone to the library.

Sasamaru: This early in the morning?

Araragi: Hiyo-chan has always been like that, you know?

Harutsuge: How nostalgic. I haven't seen her like that recently.

Araragi: Old habits really die hard.

Sasamaru: ?

As Harutsuge and Araragi point out...
after running off, Hiyo rushes to the library as soon as she arrives at the school.

Hiyo: (Administrative lands of Izumo faction? Yamato's royalty Uchitsukuni theory? Oh, no, I don't understand anything!)

Hiyo: (I won't be able to keep up with his topics like this! He'll get bored!)

Hiyo: (Hiyo, you greenhorn! Greenhorn!)

Hiyo: (I must expand my knowledge much, much more! I must study as much as possible in order to keep up with all the topics he talks about!)

Hiyo: (I must catch up with him even a little bit!)

Araragi: Well...this is youth.

Harutsuge: Though, I feel it's exceeding the realm of youth.

Sasamaru: ? ? ?

Sasamaru: Hiyo...hasn't returned yet.

We three arrive at the classroom.
The chime will ring soon, but Hiyo still isn't here.

Harutsuge: Don't worry. Hiyo-kun is very punctual.

Sasamaru: I know that, but...Hiyo was a bit different this morning.

Harutsuge: You got it wrong. She's the same as ever.

Sasamaru: Really?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, maybe you simply didn't notice this about Hiyo-chan?

Harutsuge: Because he's the thickheaded king.

Sasamaru: Whaaa?

She calls me "thickheaded" again.

Sasamaru: ...Well, in any case, I'll go get her. Maybe she hasn't noticed that the class will soon start.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. She's the "Miss Perfect."

Sasamaru: I know that. But even Hiyo makes mistakes sometimes.

Harutsuge: No, you don't get it. Yes, even she makes mistakes sometimes...but she wasn't born perfect.

Harutsuge: The others {\i1}started{\i0} calling her that.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: Aah, jeez.

Harutsuge sighs as if she was irritated at my insensitivity.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, for example...when you sat on your seat now, didn't you feel something unnatural?

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Harutsuge: The position of the seats.

Sasamaru: ...I was surprised that there's only four people.

Harutsuge: Not that. I mean your position.

Sasamaru: You mean...it's between you and Hiyo?

Harutsuge: Exactly.

Yes. When I first entered the classroom, I was sure my seat was the one by the window.

They would have moved the seat to the corner if there were a student that wouldn't come to school anytime soon, or if the student hadn't come to school for a long time.

This is not out of malice. Students help each other by standing beside one another.

From the position now...
Hiyo should get closer to Harutsuge.
Meaning that Hiyo should move to my seat.

But Hiyo's seat is actually the one closest to the window.

Sasamaru: Did the teacher decide the seat order?

Harutsuge: No. She said that we're free to choose. We can decide it.

This is even more unnatural.

Sasamaru: This means there was always a space between you and Hiyo, right?

Harutsuge: That's right.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I'll say this in advance. This distance is not the emotional distance between Hiyo and me, okay? It's not.

Sasamaru: What are you impatient about?

But this means that...
it's possible that Hiyo was being thoughtful of me.

The act of "removing" someone's seat is not very pleasant, whether it's yours or someone's else.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun wasn't refraining from it, you know?

...Or so I thought. Harutsuge gives me a warning.

Harutsuge: Well, I think she was refraining. But the primary reason is elsewhere.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: Think. Think.

Sasamaru: Got it. But if I don't go now, Hiyo will be...

Harutsuge: Aah...you're right.

Sasamaru: I'll go get her, then.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: Maybe that wasn't...very fair.

Harutsuge: Hmmm.

Araragi: ...

Same day, after I return to the dorm.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan. About what Harutsuge-chan said earlier.

I'm walking through the hallway when Araragi approaches me.

Sasamaru: What Harutsuge said...you mean "why my seat is between Harutsuge's and Hiyo's"?

Araragi: Yeah. Did you notice it?

Sasamaru: No, not yet.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. They talk about the famous Finland soldier Simo Häyhä, right?

Sasamaru: Simo Häyhä...the unparalleled sniper in history, feared as "The White Death."

Araragi: "I want to show what I know, but the others only ask what I don't know."

Sasamaru: Aah. But it was Churchill who said that. He was a British statesman. You mistook the country and occupation.

Araragi: I didn't know you could see it like that.

Sasamaru: I think that's not what you should admire. You should reflect on it a bit. And? What about Churchill's words?

Araragi: That's what I mean, Sasamaru-chan. Even I can tell this much.

Sasamaru: ...?

Araragi: Why are you thickheaded only about this? Sasamaru-chan, you're well-informed, right? You're happy when you have a chance to display your knowledge, right?

Sasamaru: I'm not well-informed.

Araragi: ...Of course. Sasamaru-chan, so, that's how you reply. I'll rephrase it, then.

Araragi: You're happier when others talk about a topic that you know rather than one you don't, right?

Sasamaru: Err, well...that's true.

Araragi: But someone who cares about their surroundings hesitates when they notice they're the only one talking, right? This means they're happy when there's someone who can keep up with their topics.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: That's what I mean.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: What I mean.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Try to notice this, okay?

Sometimes, Araragi says very complicated things.

...At night.

While Araragi is preparing dinner, I sit on the veranda and ponder...

...about what Harutsuge said to me in the classroom this morning.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. She's the "Miss Perfect."

Sasamaru: I know that. But even Hiyo makes mistakes sometimes.

Harutsuge: No, you don't get it. Yes, even she makes mistakes sometimes...but she wasn't born perfect.

Harutsuge: The others {\i1}started{\i0} calling her that.

Harutsuge used my seat as an example of this.

Harutsuge: Well, I think she was refraining. But the primary reason is elsewhere.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: Think. Think.

Harutsuge said to think.
I'm sure there's some meaning in this.

Hiyo: Oh, honey.

And Hiyo appears.

Hiyo: What are you doing?

Sasamaru: Ah, I was in deep thought.

Hiyo: Ah...I'm sorry.

Hiyo makes an awkward face and heads toward the living room.

Hiyo's...consideration.
This is probably what Harutsuge wanted to say.

It seems I'm not aware of the heart of the matter.

Sasamaru: Thanks again.

Hiyo: Eh?

She turns over to the words thrown at her back.

Sasamaru: Thanks, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Wh...why out of nowhere?

Sasamaru: Well, I was thinking about how you're always helping me.

From Harutsuge's way of speaking, "I'm thickheaded."
And this something, which I must realize, is being left behind.

But I still haven't noticed, and I'm unable to.

Despite this, it's irresponsible to apologize with "I'm sorry."

When apologizing, one must know exactly the meaning of the apology.
There's nothing more rude than a lip-service apology.

So, I express my gratitude.

Harutsuge doesn't have to point out. I'm aware that I must thank her.

Hiyo: Far from it. I haven't helped you at all, honey.

I knew she'd reply like that.

But it's like Harutsuge is pushing my back.

Sasamaru: No. I'm having so much fun now.

Hiyo: Eh?

If there's one thing that I must tell her, it's these feelings of being unable to thank her enough.

Sasamaru: Honestly, the project creation is unsparing time-wise. And I'd be lying if I said I'm not tired. But even so, every day is fun.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo, I think this is because you were always there supporting me.

Hiyo: T-that's not...

Sasamaru: So, thank you.

Hiyo: Honey...

Hiyo happily breaks into a smile.

But the next moment, as if she was disciplining herself...

Hiyo: Thank you very much, honey. I'm unworthy of those words.

Hiyo: For me...there's nothing happier than being able to be useful to you, even if a little bit.

Hiyo: But, honey. Don't mind me. I'm doing this out of my own free will. You don't have to feel like that.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Please.

I know well the words she is replying.

But these words...
are something I could never agree with.

Sasamaru: Hiyo...well...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: ...

But I don't know how I should say it.

Sasamaru: ...Is there something bothering you?

And what I speak out are these exorbitant words.

Hiyo: Something...bothering me?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

I wonder if I can be useful to her somehow.

Of course, this is also as a normal gratitude.

But I must repay her for always helping me. If I can't do this, I might lose my right to be together with her.

I feel this impatience.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo seems to be pondering for a while.

Hiyo: The fact that you're being considerate of me like this is a matter so happy that I'm actually bothered instead.

She says this with a smile.

Sasamaru: Err, I don't mean that.

Now I'm really stumped.
I'm no match for her.

In the first place, Hiyo is way more reliable than me.

If something's bothering her, she solves it by herself. And even if this is something she can't handle alone, she won't need my unreliable help.

I'm a "bamboo grass," a "Sasa" who was granted the "bamboo" seat. I'm no match for the genuine "chrysanthemum."

As I thought, this difference is huge.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, is there...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: Is there someone you like?

Hiyo: Eh!?

After my question, she opens both eyes wide.

Sasamaru: (There is?)

From her reaction, I can affirm this.

She too is an adult. It's not surprising if there are one or two such men.

Although, I don't think she's a fickle girl who has two or three such men.

Sasamaru: What's he like?

Hiyo: Err...well...

Sasamaru: It seems I don't know well what love is about. But is there something I can do?

Harutsuge: ...Look, Araragi-kun. There's an extremely interesting play happening in the hallway.

Araragi: Eh? Where, where?

Harutsuge: Whoa. What an irritating smell.

Araragi: How rude. I made today's dinner with all my heart.

Harutsuge: So, you want to defeat the opponent in one strike, eh.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, no dinner for you.

Harutsuge: ...Should I fight against hunger or stomachache?

Araragi: How cruel~

Which reminds me, I never had this conversation with Hiyo.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you give the impression that you have high standards. He must be an amazing person, different from me.

Hiyo: Err...umm...

After my words, Hiyo makes an expression as if she doesn't know what to say.

Hiyo: D-do I really look like I have high standards?

And she says this in an evasive voice tone.

Sasamaru: Aah, well. Hiyo, you appear to be a bit of a perfectionist.

Hiyo: Perfectionist...

Sasamaru: Ah...I can't say it well, but it's like you have no openings...or handle everything flawlessly. So, you appear like a perfectionist.

Hiyo: You say that's why I appear to have high standards?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

I wonder if I said something strange.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: No, I didn't mean it in a weird way.

Hiyo: I think that...the true nature of having high standards is nothing more than to put distance between yourself and others.

Sasamaru: To put distance between yourself and others?

Hiyo: Yes. It's just an excuse hidden behind those words, like "I don't build a close relationship with others," or "don't try to," or "don't have the time," or "it's troublesome."

Hiyo: You live only inside shallow relationships despite having feelings of craving. So, the standards naturally become higher. Sometimes, you crave for a nonexistent partner who can only be taken as a manifestation of a delusion.

Hiyo: These are simply conditions lined up out of one's own convenience. It's no longer a type nor anything. It's just "conditions."

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Because this doesn't mean you're "attracted to the other person."

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Ah, I'm sorry. Pardon.

Sasamaru: No. Me too, I'm sorry.

I knew it, it's no use.

I've never fallen in love properly...and I don't even know well what the feeling of love is. I shouldn't have asked that.

Hiyo: But yes. As you've said, my opposite-sex standards are high, you know?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Maybe because she notices my behavior, Hiyo says this as if trying to change the subject.

The person sought by this girl must be someone able to be a good match for her.

Hiyo: The gentleman whom I adore with all my heart is the best one in the whole world, whom I can boast about to anyone.

Sasamaru: Good, good.

The image that appears in my mind...
is a calm, intelligent, logical and flawless handsome man.

And without sarcasm.
And a refreshing smile.
A Mister Perfect.

If I say this to Hiyo...

Hiyo: Perfect...

She tilts her head, as if the word "perfect" was stuck in her mind.

Hiyo: Yes, a talented gentleman is worthy of respect, but...there would be no meaning with me there.

Sasamaru: No meaning with you?

Hiyo: I-I'm still lacking...and it's not my place to say this, and I might be scolded for doing so, but...

Hiyo: B-but I too am a girl. I'd notice things he wouldn't notice...and take care of him...

Hiyo: And...I want to lend him a hand...as much as I can.

Kumigami Hiyo is a girl.

Disordered, she's saying this with a deep red face.
I can't help but feel that she's a "girl."

Sasamaru: So, a partner who's a bit unreliable as much as you're reliable is just right?

Hiyo: Unreliable? That's preposterous!!

Suddenly, Hiyo takes offense and lets out a loud voice.

Hiyo: Ah, I-I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: ...Me too. I'm sorry.

I must not make jokes about this.
I didn't intend on making jokes, though.

Hiyo: A-anyway...the one I adore is by no means unreliable. He's a very charming gentleman.

Hiyo: I can't hold a candle to him.

Speaking this, she is irresistibly cute.

Hiyo: I am inadequate, but...if he happens to choose me, I'll take care of him to the best of my ability.

I don't know what kind of man he is, but I think that's too much.

It's very, very selfish for me, the one who brought up this topic, to think this, but...

...I'm a bit angry somewhat.

Hiyo: No. I must always spare no effort in order to be chosen.

There's no man who wouldn't choose Hiyo, right!?

Our Hiyo.
Even if you search the whole world, there's no woman this nice!

I mean, if she's approaching him with these feelings, there's no way he won't notice it, right!?

Making her feel like this and still not realizing...is he an idiot!?
I'll grant him the title of "thickheaded king"!!

Sasamaru: (...Ah!)

I just notice a frightening possibility.

Don't tell me...
Wait, perhaps...

Sasamaru: (Don't tell me...is he toying with Hiyo?)

If he is, I'll make him pay.

If he's aware of Hiyo's feelings and still feigning ignorance...if he's trampling on her pure feelings just for laughs...

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: Is he studying here?

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Could you tell me this?

Hiyo: Ah, err...well...

She's being evasive, perhaps because it's hard to tell.

Sasamaru: Got it. Then, promise me one thing. If he ever makes you cry, be sure to tell me.

Hiyo: Ah, but, umm...

Sasamaru: You can't?

Hiyo: ...U...understood.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Him.
Someone whose face I don't know.

Just try making Hiyo cry.

I shall make you pay.

Harutsuge: A devil...there's a devil here.

Araragi: I wonder if that's a father's mentality.

Harutsuge: So, this is the train of thought of a demon. How frightening.

Araragi: Though, it's quite manly if you look only at the words.

Harutsuge: If the positions of male and female were reversed...the man would be agonizing with moe.

Araragi: Errrr, I think both are too much.

Harutsuge: This is why I never get tired of peeping.

Araragi: I kinda want to know if you're worried or having fun.

Harutsuge: I'll plainly say it, then. I...

Araragi: Ah, I got it already. You don't have to say it.

Hiyo: B-but he's very kind. He'll never do that.

Sasamaru: I know that.

He's someone good enough to make Hiyo fall in love. I'm sure he's good.

Sasamaru: I'm saying this in the unlikely event.

But Hiyo is kind. She might try to defend him.

When I think about him taking advantage of this kindness...

Hiyo: I-it's all right!

Sasamaru: Okay.

Hiyo: He's very kind.

Sasamaru: Good, good.

Hiyo: Overflowing with a chivalrous spirit.

Sasamaru: Good, good, good.

Hiyo: A gentleman who is always thinking about those around him instead of himself!

Harutsuge: "Always thinking about those around him." I won't ignore the poison included in there.

Araragi: I think Hiyo didn't mean that.

Harutsuge: No doubt that what she really wanted to say was "instead of myself."

Araragi: If only she could tell her real feelings.

Hiyo: ...And also, this gentleman...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...and that's him.

...Amazing.
Now, that makes his 573rd good point.

Hiyo must like him very much.

Harutsuge: 574th...575th...it's amazing how Sasamaru-kun doesn't realize who she's talking about after listing so many.

Araragi: I thought about that too.

Harutsuge: This is called the "smart but idiot."

Araragi: That's included in the word "thickheaded."

Harutsuge: I was thinking something. Maybe Sasamaru-kun is no longer at the "thickheaded" level.

Harutsuge: That's something different from "thickheaded." It's a different being.

Araragi: By the way, Harutsuge-chan. Sorry for spoiling your fun, but...

Harutsuge: What is it?

Araragi: I think we should go help them now.

Harutsuge: No, it'll be quite a sight to see how far this story goes.

Araragi: But my cooking will get cold.

Harutsuge: Oh, no! It'll no longer be edible!

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. Even I get angry sometimes, you know?

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun. Let's help. We must help Hiyo-ku...no, Sasamaru-kun? Anyway, help them.

Araragi: After the meal, let's have a long, long talk, okay?

Harutsuge: Yes! I'm very sorry!

Hiyo: ...Ah...

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: ...I might cry tonight.

//subchapter
A Big Mistake...?
October 14 (Wednesday)
With You, Here and Now,

Recently, Hiyo has been awfully sleepy.

We're in harmony.
As a single class, we're tackling the project's work while having fun.

However, despite having fun with everyone, the amount of work we must do is enormous.

As a real problem, there's the fact that "we're delayed." We're so busy we can't stand still. It's so hectic that we have no time to lose.

No one is grumbling, let alone complaining. But, despite having fun with stupid topics as always, everyone is visibly tired.

In particular, Hiyo's fatigue is striking.

Sasamaru: Hiyo...are you okay?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: Ah. Y-yes. What is it?

Sasamaru: ...

She was sleepy the other day, too.
But if I say, "you may rest if you're feeling tired," she always says "I'm fine."

Although, I know that her personality won't let her rest all by herself in this situation.

But it's thanks to everyone's hard work that we're slowly...
really slowly recovering our delay.

We've used up the "deposit" I was saving together with Hiyo, but if we keep this up, we'll pay back the "debt."
This is not wishful thinking. We're feeling a response that it's starting to become reality.

?: WAAAAAAAAAAAHHH!!

A certain day. I hear a voice close to a scream from a classroom I'm passing by.

I'm in front of the green team's classroom.

Green Team Male Student A: This is bad! Really bad! Aah...what do I do!? What am I supposed to do!?

Green Team Female Student A: C-calm down! Let's calculate it one more time! I'm sure it'll be all right!

I reflexively stop and overhear their conversation from beyond the sliding door.

A calculation mistake.
The biggest mistake regarding a project to be done within a time frame.

It is a naive schedule estimation, and a fundamental and lethal calculation mistake.

In other words, they "won't be on time."

Green Team Male Student A: I'm sorry...it's all my fault. I proposed it, and yet...ah, and everyone was working so hard. I'm sorry! I'm very sorry!

Green Team Female Student A: I-It's okay! If we start working today, we might finish it...right? We'll work even harder now!

Sasamaru: ...

I'm feeling reluctant, but...
I walk away from the front of the classroom.

I learned this from the yellow team's incident.
The feelings I'm harboring now are called meddling.

Also, what Waka-san said back then is not wrong at all.

So, I start walking.
What I must think now is—though this is a cold way of speaking—to use them as a example of what not to do and be cautious.

Sasamaru: (I've checked it. Our red team is all right.)

The crucial point is to make our red team project with the proper quality.
And most importantly, to finish on time.

We finally have an idea of the finished project.

After that, our following days were spent exclusively on completing our project, without exaggeration.

As one, we engaged in creating the project.

There was not a single complaint.

Sasamaru: (Thanks.)

I know it's unreasonable for me to say this.

Sasamaru: (Thanks.)

To create the red team's project with everyone from the red team.

Everyone accepted this. And I also know that, since they're here with this determination, to harbor these feelings is almost arrogance, but...

Sasamaru: (Thanks.)

Still, I can't help but think this.
We are on time.

Although barely, we manage to be on time according to the schedule I drew at the start.

It's indeed the fruit of everyone's hard work.

What we must face in order to complete our project...

These are the "production" and the "exhibition."

Since this is a project, the "production" is needless to point out.

The problem is the "exhibition."

Our red team project won't be completed as a project if we don't "exhibit" it.

For this purpose, there are two ways for this.

One is to perform the "production" and "exhibition" at the same time.
The other one is to perform the "exhibition" after the "production."

The "same time" of the former is the method of, for example, in a group of four like ours, two create the project while two exhibit the finished project one by one.

The latter is for the four of us to create the project simultaneously and, as soon as it's finished, perform the exhibition in one go with the four of us.

The one we chose was the latter.

Our reason is that, since it is a project, we don't want others to see it until the last moment.
We were actually concerned about this, but...

...the number one reason is that our project has the restriction of "can only be placed in a very specific place."

In short, we are creating our project as "something that must be placed there."

It's not indoors, but outdoors. Our concern was to place it under the wind and rain too early.

Since we can't let go of the requirement of "the place must be outdoors," it's unavoidable that the project becomes damaged somewhat.
Still, we want everyone to see it as undamaged as possible.

This is my conscience and my true feelings as the creator. So, our only choice was the latter.

As a result, we'll start the "exhibition" at the last possible moment.

Because a creator will try to drag on the "creation" as much as possible.
But leaving this truth with a tint of joke aside...

Our project demands quality, of course. But first is the "numbers."

This project, which requires a considerable "number," also requires a considerable production time.

So, we'll use all the time we have and complete the numbers. And then, start the exhibition.

//text on screen
Ayanashisai

Sasamaru: (Still...we really were able to be on time.)

Looking at the project that's only waiting for tomorrow's exhibition, I think once again.

Sasamaru: (It's thanks to everyone that we were able to recover that much delay.)

So, I can't contain my feelings of gratitude.

Sasamaru: (We're able to tackle the Ayanashisai as the "red team"...as everyone from the "Four Noble Ones.")

The welling up feelings invigorate me.

Thanks to everyone's hard work, our project advanced exactly as I scheduled at the start. We completed the "necessary" numbers I had calculated.

If we start the exhibition tomorrow, we'll have enough time until the Ayanashisai.

The exhibition work is by no means an easy one, but our "project" will finally be completed when we finish this.

Sasamaru: (I'm quite the worrier, too.)

I do an awkward smile at myself.

I came here to do a final check before starting the "exhibition" tomorrow.

I'm thinking of recounting to see if the numbers match.

I could simply check it tomorrow morning before going to school, but...
I'm worried because we're barely on time.

Actually, I had returned to the dorms, but I came here again before going to bed.

I already counted it several times. There's no need to confirm it now, but...

Sasamaru: (...All right.)

I confirm the numbers—the same as the scheduled ones—feel relieved and sit on the chair.

While imagining the exhibition place, I think about the work that will start tomorrow and...

...the moment I realize {\i1}that,{\i0} I reflexively stand up from the chair.

Sasamaru: Ah.

I desperately work my mind.

The fierce impatience is making my head work several times faster than usual.
But it's hazy and unstable like a revolving lantern, the complete opposite of a frozen situation.

It's not something to count with the fingers. I count the numbers like climbing a staircase while skipping one step.
But the more I count, the more my mind wavers.

The faster I arrive at the deeper levels, the more the answer surprises me.

Sasamaru: It's not enough.

I have recounted over and over. The truth that finally overflows from my mouth freezes my mind.

{\i1}No matter how many times I recount, it's still not enough!{\i0}

Sasamaru: How was it?

Hiyo: It's as you said, honey. I put it together in these papers just in case.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Before starting the project, I split with Hiyo and checked the exhibition place.

Our exhibition place isn't only one. It'll finally become a single project after combining several places.

At that time, Hiyo neatly summarized it in the papers. There were no mistakes, but...

...my part was {\i1}lacking in several places.{\i0}

Sasamaru: No way.

Why?

Why has no one noticed this? There were four of us. Why?

Sasamaru: (Stop. Don't think that.)

Everyone believed in me.
They believed in me.

That's why everyone did it as I requested.
{\i1}No one doubted it because I said it would be on time.{\i0}

I was naive.

Sasamaru: (This is my mistake!)

I realize I'm staggering due to the sound of the chair falling.

What do I do?
Our remaining time is limited.
If we start an appended work now, it won't be on time.

Even if we finish the production, we won't have time for the exhibition.

Sasamaru: (No, maybe we can? Maybe we can finish it if we work the whole time without sleeping?)

Do not rely on wishful thinking.
You make these foolish mistakes because you have these optimistic ideas.

Sasamaru: (Do we submit the project half-completed? We've worked this much. I'm sure the student council will recognize our efforts and...)

Are you an idiot!?
Why are you being fainthearted for?
To begin with, was your objective simply "to have them recognize our efforts"?

Also, an incomplete project can't be called a project.

Do you plan on submitting such a thing as "our red team's" project?

Sasamaru: Dammit!!

This is no time to shout.
This is no time to get angry at my own worthlessness.

Think.
Think.
If this keeps up, everyone's work will be for naught.

I'll have betrayed everyone who believed in me.

Think.
Think desperately.
Think until you're worn out.

What must I do to complete the project on time?

Araragi: Zzz.

Harutsuge: Good kids fall asleep fast. Look at her defenseless face. She doesn't realize Sasamaru-kun is playing wicked sexual pranks with her every night.

Harutsuge: Huh? Where's Sasamaru-kun?

Hiyo: Well...

Harutsuge: What, he's not here? And there's a happy, happy foursome waiting.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hey, Hiyo-kun. A joke is a living being. It dies from loneliness if no one jabs at it.

Hiyo: Ah, yes.

Harutsuge: ...Hmm.

Harutsuge: Your face is saying you have a guess. What happened to Sasamaru-kun?

Hiyo: Well, he...he was extremely worried if the project would be finished on time, and...

Harutsuge: I'm sorry. Forgive me.

Hiyo: Ah, no, it's not that. He must have gone to do another check.

Harutsuge: But Sasamaru-kun did that when we were leaving.

Hiyo: That's true, but he must have gone to check once more.

After all's said and done, I must do it.

There are no tricks in creating a work.

The only way is to face it directly and pour the ideas and techniques with all my strength.

Sasamaru: (Shit! Shit! Shit!)

My impatient feelings disorder my hands, producing a mistake.

I take time to repair it and, as a result, there is a vicious cycle of wasting more and more time.

Sasamaru: (Dammit!)

I simply realize my own worthlessness.

Harutsuge: Isn't Sasamaru-kun a bit too late?

Harutsuge: ...Oops, Hiyo-kun is no longer here. And it was while I got bored from having a pillow fight tournament alone.

Harutsuge: Also, I thought she was sleeping, but Araragi-kun too isn't here. To wake up even her, a person who never wakes up once she falls asleep...Sasamaru-kun really is a lucky guy.

Araragi: I'm back.

Harutsuge: Oh, Araragi-kun. You're back fast. How was Sasamaru-kun?

Araragi: Well, seems Hiyo-chan left together, so...

Harutsuge: That's no reason to return.

Araragi: Well, but that's a...you see?

Harutsuge: Hmm. Well, if you say so.

Araragi: Thank you very much for the profound reply. That's our elder sister. Always seeing through everything.

Harutsuge: Elder si...

Harutsuge: ...That's...well, Sasamaru-kun might mimic you if you keep saying that even as a joke. Stop it, okay?

Araragi: It's not a joke.

Harutsuge: Err, but...

Araragi: We've called you this several times since we were little. Why are you bothered now?

Harutsuge: Y-you didn't call me several times. It was a little. Just a little.

Araragi: Well...maybe we didn't call you like that recently?

Harutsuge: Let's refrain from using it. Yes. This is for the best.

Araragi: ...?

Hiyo: Honey? Are you here?

For a while, Hiyo waits for the answer, but...

Hiyo: Excuse me.

...the one who's there is Sasamaru, earnestly absorbed in the work.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: ...

Looks like he's so concentrated that he can't even hear his own voice.

Or rather, the impatience is supporting his intense concentration.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Uh...

When I wake up, the ceiling I see is different from the usual one.

Sasamaru: (Oh, no!!)

I slept.
How careless! And I was exerting myself so much!

After springing up, I remove the blanket covering me and, in panic, return to the wo...

{\i1}...The blanket covering me?{\i0}

At this moment, I notice an unexpected discomfort.

Sasamaru: (Was there a blanket in this hut?)

Of course there wasn't.
It's a hut that hasn't been maintained for a long time. Such a beautiful blanket could only be here if someone brought it.

First, this blanket is from the dorm. I remember seeing it.
And I don't remember covering myself with a blanket.

Sasamaru: (So, someone brought this from the dorm?)

No, I must focus on the project.
I can leave the blanket for later.

I must return to the work I was engaging before slee...

Sasamaru: (What...is this?)

What is there is the rest of the project.

The amount that I had miscalculated...
all of it is here.

Sasamaru: What does this...mean?

Unexpectedly, this question leaks out from my mouth

Hiyo: Honey? Are you here?

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo?

Hiyo: Honey. Good morning. I was surprised that you weren't in the dormitory.

Sasamaru: Ah...my bad.

Which reminds me, I planned on returning soon and left without telling anyone.

Wait, this isn't relevant.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, about...this.

Hiyo: What's the matter with our project?

Sasamaru: Well, the amount is...

Hiyo: The amount?

Sasamaru: Ah...

That's right. I haven't told them about it.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, I'm sorry, very sorry. I miscalculated it.

Hiyo: Miscalculated?

Sasamaru: It's not enough. I miscalculated the numbers.

Hiyo: Oh. But honey, we checked this yesterday, didn't we?

Sasamaru: I mistook the conditions. It's not enough. The numbers aren't enough at all.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo tilts her head and starts roughly counting the project's numbers here inside the water mill.

Hiyo: I don't think that's true.

Sasamaru: But, well...

Yes, there's enough here.

I'm sure there wasn't enough yesterday. But this morning, the numbers are matching.

Sasamaru: Well...

What am I talking about?

Hiyo: Honey, you were working harder than everyone. You were exhausted after finishing the work, weren't you?

Sasamaru: No...that's not it.

Hiyo: Ah, honey. Perhaps you forgot to count the ones over here?

Saying this, Hiyo points to a place that's a blind spot from even inside the room.

Hiyo: It's a bit hard to see. I think you carelessly overlooked the ones we made at the start.

Sasamaru: No, there were none ove...

None over...there?

There were ones over there?

Sasamaru: But...

It's still strange.

To begin with, I had miscalculated.

Some were missing at the start.
I made the schedule based on this and everyone worked while following this schedule.

So, there shouldn't be any of it there.
It shouldn't be there.

I confirmed it twice yesterday. It was the amount from the miscalculated schedule.
An amount more than this shouldn't exist in this water mill.

So, if...

If there were an amount more than this, it means someone saw through my mistake.

Sasamaru: (Hey...wait.)

So, someone saw through it?

The correct amount is actually here.
Someone noticed my mistake and prepared the remaining amount.
Is this what happened?

But, when?

Everyone was at full throttle with the project.
They didn't have such a time while working here. We all had our quota. I'd notice if they had made a larger amount.

Sasamaru: Hiyo...are you okay?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: Ah. Y-yes. What is it?

Sasamaru: ...

Don't tell me...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: ...? What's the matter, honey?

Sasamaru: Don't tell me...you were...

Hiyo was...

Hiyo was doing this?
She noticed my mistake and was secretly working on it?

Without anyone noticing, all alone, with that face of lack of sleep.
Everyone was exhausted and she worked even more?

Also, as if nothing happened, for me to not blame myself with "it's my fault"?

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Hi...yo...

Harutsuge: Harutsuge has arrived.

//text on screen
Bang

Araragi: Araragi has arrived.

Hiyo: Oh my, good morning, you two.

Harutsuge: Don't "good morning" me, Hiyo-kun. You didn't return to the dorm yesterday.

Araragi: I was surprised when I woke up.

Hiyo: O-oh my...I was in the dorms, you know?

Harutsuge: You can't fool these Harutsuge Eyes (both 2.0). My daily routine is to enjoy Hiyo-kun's lingering scent on the futon first thing in the morning.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. You didn't use the eyes.

Harutsuge: I saw through the truth from that cold futon and also from that cold futon. Hiyo-kun, your crime is...

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. You don't have two proofs just because you said it twice. Also, that's circumstantial evidence.

Harutsuge: What on earth were you two doing here!?

Araragi: Bang.

//text on screen
Bang

............

Harutsuge: Huh?

Sasamaru: Eh...Harutsuge. Hiyo did...what now?

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Araragi: Beep beep beep beep beep.

Harutsuge: Analysis complete. Well, you two were sleeping until a moment ago, weren't you?

Sasamaru: Eh, ah, yeah.

Harutsuge: Despite that, why is Hiyo-kun with a face as if she didn't sleep?

Sasamaru: Eh...

Harutsuge: You're awfully refreshed. Hiyo is awfully glossy. So, I can tell exactly what happened here.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...Hmm?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. I guess we couldn't sense the mood.

Harutsuge: Looks like it. Let's retreat. Strategically.

Araragi: Well then, you two. We shall take our leave.

Harutsuge: Farewell.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Are you hungry? How about returning to the dorm to have breakfast?

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: We have plenty of time for the exhibition work. There won't be any problems if we slowly have breakfast. Be careful not to work too hard.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo...

You were...

//subchapter
Eve's Glimpse
October 27 (Tuesday)
With You, Here and Now,

The Ayanashisai is finally tomorrow.

The school festival is before us, so, there hasn't been classes recently.

We go to school as always, but, as soon as the homeroom is over, we head to the water mill as usual in order to work on the project.

This has been our recent school life.

And what I ponder after arriving at my seat and waiting for the teacher as always is...

Sasamaru: (It's thanks to Hiyo that we can be here like this.)

If Hiyo didn't notice my mistake, we wouldn't be able to celebrate the "usual" like this.

I'd be in panic with "it's my fault" while spending all my days fully concentrated on the project...even if the teacher were angry at me...even if I had to stop attending the classes.

It'd be putting the cart before the horse if I ignored the classes from the school I yearned for, but I wouldn't be able to think of any other way.

Sasamaru: (I've made a large debt.)

No, I already have several debts large enough that I can't repay even if I take my whole life.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...? What's the matter?

Sasamaru: It's nothing.

The biggest problem is that she doesn't see this as a "debt."

Sasamaru: (I must reward her after the Ayanashisai is over.)

My feelings become stronger.
No, it's too late.

Last time, the topic went in an odd direction, and, because of me, we ended up talking about the man she likes.
But now...

At this moment, the classroom's sliding screen opens.

And today, the teacher goes straight to the table.

Her step is smooth, as if she would start the lesson normally.

It's this class' mystery that I can say it like this.

Sasamaru: (Good heavens, what's going on today?)

After thinking about what introduction she will do, I feel the tense mood loosening a little.

Everyone taught me that it's bad to be too eager. I'm grateful for this short pause, but...
as a real issue, it's unavoidable that I feel this time as wasteful.

Onitake-sensei: *cough* *cough* *cough*

After arriving at the table, the teacher coughs. It's the same as these last days.

Recently, it seems the teacher's health is worsening.
But I don't honestly think this because it might be the introduction to something.

Teacher, please stop these long jokes.

Onitake-sensei: Excuse me. Who's on the weekly duty?

But the next moment, the teacher's voice is different from usual.

Sasamaru: Eh, ah, yes.

I'm taken aback by her tense and calm voice.

Onitake-sensei: Morning greeting, please.

Sasamaru: Ah, yes.

It's the first time she asks for the morning greeting.

She usually starts with a performance, so, I can't really tell the timing for the morning greeting.
So, today's story starts with a morning greeting?

Sasamaru: Stand up.

After my voice echoes, everyone stands up all at once.

Sasamaru: Bow.

The four: Good morning.

Onitake-sensei: Yes, good morning.

With a gallant face, the teacher does a deep and beautiful bow.

Sasamaru: Sit down.

Then, we take our seats.

I can't hide my bewilderment at this: the first proper homeroom since I arrived at this school.

Onitake-sensei: Everyone, tomorrow is finally the Ayanashisai.

Her tense voice resounds inside the classroom, as if it was a thundering voice.

Onitake-sensei: I feel regretful for having to take your time at this hour. But, with the Ayanashisai tomorrow, there is something I must tell you all.

Onitake-sensei: Everyone, I don't deserve to be your teacher.

...Eh?
What is she talking about?

Onitake-sensei: I do not have the power to raise and guide you, who are shining with brilliance. You know this more than anyone.

What is she...talking about?

Onitake-sensei: You have fought well. You have been fighting since that day when I told you about the Ayanashisai.

Onitake-sensei: At first, the class was split into two. One followed the proposal. The other one didn't approve of it.

Sasamaru: ...!

Onitake-sensei: There are four people in this class. Only four. However, each one has their ideas, their lives, the beliefs they must persist with.

Onitake-sensei: Therefore, four is a very large number. You all weighted your feelings, earnestly faced each other, and fought. The four students fought.

Onitake-sensei: Your longings for your dreams. Your beliefs toward your ideals. Your stance as a group member. Your sense of distance from others as an individual. Your responsibility as a student from this class.

Onitake-sensei: And also, something yours that you'll never yield.

Sasamaru: ...

Onitake-sensei: You all have shouldered, harbored, fought...and persisted with this.

Onitake-sensei: And here and now, your faces as a result of all this. Faces emitting a radiance. Dazzling faces. "Excellent faces"!

Sasamaru: Teacher.

Onitake-sensei: Please, do not forget...that you did not need me.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Onitake-sensei: That you {\i1}did not need an adult.{\i0}

Onitake-sensei: You solved the problem before you with your own power. You clasped it with your own power. Each one crossed their respective mountains and are now here.

Onitake-sensei: Therefore, I cannot call you children. Not to mention calling you a student of the likes of me.

Onitake-sensei: So, these are not my words as a teacher. It's my request as one person.

Onitake-sensei: Show me your faces of having become proper adults.

Everyone in the classroom suddenly falls silent.

Sasamaru: T-teacher.

I unconsciously stand up from my seat.

Unable to contain the fervent feelings welling up deep in my chest, I stand up.

Hiyo: Teacher. Thank you very much for the wonderful "lesson."

There's someone feeling the same.
Looking up at the teacher, her gaze has an evident ardor.

Araragi: Teacher. I...I...

There's someone unable to stop the tears.
It's the incessant and overflowing feelings, telling our wish of wanting to embrace the one standing in front.

Harutsuge: I'm sorry, teacher. I was sure you were a *****.

HEY, WAIT A MINUTE!!

This is a touching moment! You just said the word starting with "fr" and ending with "ak", didn't you?

Did you think she was actually someone outrageous!? And you're repenting for this now!?

Onitake-sensei: It's fine, it's fine. But today, let me express my real feelings.

Onitake-sensei: Let me be proud of my dear friends.

Teacher!!

Is it me who screamed this, or is it everyone?

Ah, that's right.
We are "four people," but there's someone who was always watching over us.

Thinking back upon it, the teacher never said anything.
Not when I first proposed the project, nor when we weren't creating it together, nor when the many things happened, nor when whatever happened.

She simply kept watching over and accepting us.
And she must have had a mouthful to talk about.

This is the "red team."

There was one red team.
But now it's a different red team.

The teacher was always watching over us four until we became the "red team."
And now, she finally gives us the words.

"Good work."

Sasamaru: I'm happy.

Sasamaru: I'm happy to be in this class.

Here is one class.

A class is made up of a teacher and the students.

Hiyo: The mist...has appeared again, hasn't it?

As Hiyo says, a thick mist was invited to this whole region, as if it was completely enveloping the forest.

Although it's not thick like the first time I came here, when I couldn't see one inch ahead, it's enough to obstruct the night sky's moonlight.

On that subject, I haven't been here recently.
I thought the fog would be cleared completely, but it's not.

It is the last day before the Ayanashisai.
The "exhibition" work necessary to complete our project is extending until late at night.

Hiyo and I are responsible for this area.
The reason for this division was when we divided the allotted places into two.

Araragi: Let's get going, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Hmm? Wait, I can do that part alone, okay? It's not an amount I can't do alo...

Araragi: Let's go, let's go.

Araragi is pushing Harutsuge's back.

Harutsuge: Y-yeah.

And this small act happened.

No one was displeased about the work continuing for this long.

I personally felt that everyone was united and didn't spare any efforts to complete the project.

I'm very happy about this.

Until the end, we mustn't be shoddy in order to repay the teacher's feelings.

Hiyo: Looks like we'll be able to finish it tonight somehow.

Sasamaru: Looks like it.

Just a little more.
A bit more.
Deep feelings of "we're finally this far" fill my heart.

Sasamaru: It's too late to say this, but...

But at the same time, I feel calm now that its completion is approaching, because we were simply rushing recklessly toward our objective.

Sasamaru: Now that we entered the exhibition work, we can't hide it anymore. Surprisingly, maybe everyone has already noticed it?

It's not "surprisingly." It's for sure.

Our project should be visible to everyone in the school.

Hiyo: That might be so.

Sasamaru: I thought so.

Hiyo: Did you want to surprise everyone on the very day of the Ayanashisai?

Sasamaru: Err, well...truth be told, yeah.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: Hehe.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: Ah, I was just thinking that your mind is so complicated.

Sasamaru: ...

...I'm no match for her.

Yes, a project is a self-expression method to throw out to society, but...
frankly, this isn't my objective.

That's why Hiyo is saying to me, "you did it while knowing that, didn't you?"

"From the start, you weren't scared of everyone seeing the project."

Sasamaru: (I'm really no match for her.)

Hiyo can see through even this with only one glimpse of my expression.

I was able to come this far because she was here with me.

The fact that we are able to see the completed project...all of this is because of her support.

"Thanks for everything."
I swallow down the words about to leave my throat.

I feel I'll become very insignificant once I say it out loud.

I'm always telling her this, but I can't repay her consideration with words alone.

Sasamaru: (Isn't there something I can do?)

This might not be the time to think this, but I want to properly tell her my gratitude after the Ayanashisai ends.

Hiyo: Hehe. Or, surprisingly, no one has noticed it.

Sasamaru: I think that's unlikely.

Hiyo: But when we shifted from the production to the exhibition, every class was at the final stages, right?

Hiyo: Everyone's field of vision narrows once they immerse themselves in their projects. They become insensitive to changes in their surroundings.

Sasamaru: Well, that's true...but still, it's too much.

After I say this, Hiyo...

Hiyo: Oh, honey. Do you doubt the passion everyone from this school puts into their projects?

...mischievously smiles.

Sasamaru: By no means!

Hiyo: Then, surprisingly, they might not have noticed our project yet, you know?

This consideration of hers gently fills my chest.

Hiyo: Also, this means everyone is earnest with their projects, and...

Hiyo: ...at the same time, this means that the red team's project that you planned is this much "natural."

Sasamaru: ...Natural?

For me, this phrasing is unexpected.

Hiyo: Yes. I think it's a very natural project. As you've once said, this is a project that touches on the unnaturalness of this school, but...

Hiyo: The project is {\i1}natural exactly because of this.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Th...that's kinda exaggerated.

Hiyo: Not at all. As a member who participated in it, I can proudly say the project is worth this much.

Sasamaru: ...

Aah...
I'm really no match.
No match at all.

But, as expected, I still get very happy after being told that.

And again, while looking up to our project...

Sasamaru: ...We'll finally complete it.

...I mutter this.

Hiyo: Yes. It's the result of your hard work, honey.

Sasamaru: There you go again.

Normally, this topic ends with my awkward smile, but...

Hiyo: I'll rephrase it, then. It's the result that followed your continuous hard work.

Today, Hiyo adds that, as if she was not stepping back.

Sasamaru: ...The result that followed?

Hiyo: Yes. The work advanced because you kept working hard.
Everyone followed you because you kept working hard.
Everyone was able to work hard because you kept working hard.

Hiyo: Honey, it's because you kept working hard...
that the end is now before us.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Right? The results followed because you kept working hard, right?

...Hiyo, please.

I might not see well because it's dark, and there's also something overflowing from the corner of my eyes, but...

...but please, don't say that with a face of "I honestly think so."

Sasamaru: But if you're going to say that...

I have something I must assert.

And in a loud voice.

Sasamaru: The one who kept helping me the most all this time was you, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh?

There, another surprised face.
You may do a face of "I know that," okay?

Sasamaru: I was able to work hard because you were there for me.

Sasamaru: I was able to work hard because you encouraged me.
I was able to work hard because you believed in me.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, it's because you were beside me...
that the end is now before us.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Right? The results followed thanks to you, right?

Mimicking her, I say this.

Hiyo: T...that's not true. I did...nothing worth of...

Sasamaru: I have to say this.

I hold back her words with a strong voice tone.

Sasamaru: I won't yield this.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: T...thank you very much.

Sasamaru: That's strange, isn't it? You don't have to thank me.

Yes, it's strange.
I'm the one who must say those words.

Sasamaru: Thanks for everything so far, Hiyo.

Looking at her, I again tell her this.

And then, with an appearance of being troubled with how to reply, Hiyo...

Hiyo: M-me too...thank you very much.

Sasamaru: I said that has no meaning. I'm the one who must say thanks.

Hiyo: B-but I did nothing worth of being thanked for.

Sasamaru: In any case, thanks.

Hiyo: No, me too, thank you very much.

Sasamaru: No, look here.

Hiyo: But I must express my gratitude for those words.

Sasamaru: Wait, wait, there's no meaning in that.

Hiyo: Very well. Then, let's end this topic with my "thank you very much."

Sasamaru: I said there's no meaning in that. Then, once more. Thanks, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes. Me too, thank you very much.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Hiyo: Me too, thank you very much.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Hiyo: Me too, thank you very much.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Hiyo: Me too, thank you very much.

Sasamaru: ...Let's stop it.

Really, what are we doing?
Is this a new kind of game?

Sasamaru: In any case, thanks, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes. Thank you very much.

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: ...I got it, jeez.

What on earth should I do to repay her?

While looking up at the night sky, I think: "Aah, so distant that it's like a star I can't touch no matter how much I extend my hand."

Hiyo: Gratitude...is more than I deserve.

Sasamaru: ...Hmm?

Sasamaru: Sorry, what did you say?

Hiyo: No, I just said that you fluster me when you speak like that.

Sasamaru: Fluster...huh.

You should just accept my thanks, though.

Sasamaru: Thank you very much for everything, Hiyo-san.

Hiyo: Me too. Thank you very much, honey.

...Oh boy.

Hiyo: But may I...correct just one thing, honey?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: It's not "everything." I'll keep helping you from now on.

Sasamaru: (...Huh?)

I suddenly sense...
a strange feeling similar to drowsiness.

Sasamaru: (What...is this?)

At this moment, the passing gust of wind blocks Hiyo's voice, as if whirling up the words.

There is a man.

(...Eh?)

There is a man.

One man.

(A...man?)

There is a husband who loves his wife.

(Aah, that's right. There is a man there.)

It's a very common story.

A story you can accept very naturally.

Like in a dream, what happened there was indeed the truth.

(A dream?)

Aah, that's right. It might be a dream.

This is a dream...

...and I might be sleeping now.

It is a scenery as if it was painted with ink.

If this is a dream, it's a "colorless dream."

This scenery almost smeared with ink is insipid and emotionless.

And also {\i1}disheveled{\i0}, as if the brush was worn out.

One is unable to draw a line as one wants, like something about to be thrown away.

So, the scenery there is very rough.

But, for some reason, familiar.

This scenery, this dream, is very familiar.

There is a man.

There is a husband.

(That's right. He's a "husband.")

That man...

That husband...

{\i1}(This man is a husband who loves his wife.){\i0}

This man is a husband who keeps loving his wife.

Sasamaru: (...?)

I reflexively and restlessly look at my surroundings.

Sasamaru: (What on earth...was that just now?)

Was it a...
dream?

Sasamaru: ...Oops?

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. What was it?

Hiyo: Hehe. No, it's nothing important.

Sasamaru: Ah...I'm sorry.

What was that just now?

It felt like dizziness, but...
I wonder if I just relaxed my mind because we're right before completion.

Sasamaru: (Keep yourself together, me.)

It's the final touches.
The red team's project is finally about to take form.

As Hiyo said, my hard work might have been one of the factors that affected the outcome.

I'm happy about this, but...
I don't plan to take back my claim that it was all thanks to Hiyo.

Still, this is...

This project is...

Sasamaru: This is the project of the "Four Noble Ones."

The orchid, the chrysanthemum, the plum blossom...
and the bamboo.

The bamboo grass...the Sasa that originally was not a friend of the noble ones is imitating the bamboo and sitting on the summer's seat.
It's not seating; it's staying there.

With one project complete.

Sasamaru: ...I wonder if I got a little closer to the bamboo.

Before I realize, I mutter this.

This mutter is the words I never intended on saying.
They are the words I pushed deep into my throat, pushed again, and swallowed.
But it's the words always about to overflow from my throat.

Hiyo: Honey.

Because I already knew.
The spring's orchid, the autumn's chrysanthemum, and the winter's plum blossom.
They're all very kind.
I knew they would accept me.

They're the nobles of the four seasons.

That's why I thought that I must not speak this.
Still, I was always thinking this.
The feelings pushed deep into my heart didn't disappear.

So, this is...

Sasamaru: (I'm sure these are my true feelings.)

Hiyo: You were a bamboo.

A reassuring reply is here.

Hiyo: For me, honey, you were always, always, always a bamboo bravely rising to the heavens since long ago.

Hiyo: Proudly, nobly...and powerful.

Sasamaru: That's not it.

I think what's powerful are Hiyo's feelings of telling me this.

Sasamaru: There was the orchid, the chrysanthemum, and the plum blossom. But there wasn't the bamboo.

Sasamaru: There was just a Sasa that, by chance, was similar to the bamboo. That's why the Sasa became everyone's friends.

Sasamaru: ...Everyone accepted it.

That's why the Sasa was eager.
Not snapping even when blown by the wind or shaken.

It straightforwardly mimicked the bamboo.

Sasamaru: So, let me say as many times as possible. Than...

Hiyo: That's not it.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: ...is what I think.

Sasamaru: But why?

Hiyo is much smarter than me. She must have seen through the truth long ago.

That's why this question is a very honest one.

Hiyo: Why?

Looking fixedly at me, Hiyo is about to answer my question...

...and suddenly makes an expression of resignation with "good heavens."

Hiyo: It's fine if you're a Sasa.

Sasamaru: Eh?

She speaks surprising words.

Hiyo: Because you're a Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself.

Sasamaru: Far more than...a bamboo?

Hiyo: Yes. Honey, you're straightforward, unbending, earnestly looking only at the sky.

Hiyo: Although, you might not accept this even after I say it.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: That makes sense. You're a Sasa. You were able to keep being a Sasa.

Hiyo: You know Sasa is weak, frail, and your body may snap if the wind blows.

Hiyo: Meaning the Sasa knows things the bamboo doesn't.

Sasamaru: ...Knows things the bamboo doesn't?

For me, these words are very unexpected.

Hiyo: Yes. Because one who looks back and wishes to become brave and strong knows far more than one who was born brave and strong.

Hiyo: The bitterness of being unable to become strong, the weakness of being unable to be brave, the frustration of not grasping one's wishes, the mind of not knowing about what it is to be born with these.

Hiyo: So, the Sasa is far more like the bamboo than itself.

Hiyo: Knowing itself and rising to the heavens, the Sasa is far straighter than the bamboo. How hard this Sasa had to work to stand straight up...

Hiyo: ...I know all about this.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Because the chrysanthemum is the noble one of the season following the bamboo. It is waiting for the chance to visit while fixedly observing the previous noble one's way of living.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: The "chrysanthemum" is watching the "bamboo" more than anyone.

At this moment, the mist clears.

What shines as if tearing through the shrouding mist is the moonlight...

...and the illuminated girl.

No, she might not have been illuminated.

This is not in the passive.

I wonder if the light descended in order to shine on her.

This smile of hers really makes me think this.

Aah, that's right.

Aah, at that time...

Hiyo: Please be my friend.

Just like that time when she cast light upon that darkness.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: ...

I scrub what's overflowing from the corner of my eyes and look at her.

Sasamaru: Still, thanks.

Hiyo: But, honey...

Sasamaru: Thanks.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I don't know of any other words.

I don't know of any other words that I should say to you.

Hiyo: ...

For a while, Hiyo makes a troubled expression, but...

Hiyo: Y...

...eventually, she abandons the hesitation...

Hiyo: You're welcome.

...and smiles.

Hiyo: I'm done here, honey.

Sasamaru: Yeah, I'm done here too.

And thus, our exhibition work comes to an end.
And when Harutsuge and Araragi finish their part, our project will be completed.

At this moment, two figures come from the depths of the sea of withered trees.

Harutsuge: We finished here, Sasamaru-kun.

Araragi: I finished too.

My friends proudly gather here.
Like the triumphal return of warriors.

Harutsuge: Well, Sasamaru-kun. It's about time, isn't it?

Harutsuge: The "project" you proposed in the classroom that day is now completed. So, I want you to tell me.

Harutsuge: Why did you choose this project?

Everyone is looking at me.

Harutsuge: Everyone already knows it wasn't a fickle idea. We finished what we had to do. Shouldn't you tell us this already?

I think Harutsuge wasn't the only one bothered by this.

But until today, no one asked.
They were considerate.

So, at this moment that is "now," Harutsuge is asking while speaking everyone's feelings.

Now, it's my turn to answer.

I'll tell her all my feelings. Spill out everything that I've been keeping deep in my chest.

Sasamaru: Everyone, do you remember that day? When Hiyo spoke the words, "Four Noble Ones."

That was the first time we went far away since we four started playing together.

Two years had passed since we met.

Without promising, we always gathered in the schoolyard.
And at the neighborhood park where we played house.
We also played at everyone's house.

But that was the first time we went far away on a day off after planning beforehand.

It was Araragi who said, "let's have a picnic."

She had been "obsessed with sandwiches recently" and thought about eating them with everyone at a place with a good view.

"I know of a great spot," said Harutsuge.
But she turned pale the moment she knew that Araragi would prepare the food.

Then, she said: "Ah, what a blunder. I remembered that pit vipers appear there in this season. I'm very sad to say that we shouldn't go there."

Araragi replied, "Harutsuge-chan, it's so unlike you to be afraid of pit vipers." But Harutsuge didn't yield: "If this continues, something far more frightening than billions of poisonous snakes will assault our stomachs."

Then, the situation quickly changed after Hiyo hesitantly said: "Then, poor though it may be, how about I make it?"

Harutsuge eyes suddenly sparkled with "we can eat Hiyo-kun's home cooking!?" But at the same time, she was at her wits' end: "But, as the senior, I must not force everyone into that dangerous place."

On the day of the picnic, Araragi didn't bring the food.
And she was, unusually, sulking a little.

At that time, I never had a chance to eat Araragi's home cooking, so, I didn't understand her meaning, but...

Thinking back, I'm sure a fierce battle between Harutsuge and Araragi was unfolding under the surface.

And the one who magnificently won was Harutsuge.

Now, I finally understand the meaning when Harutsuge said with a distant look: "Even a guinea pig sometimes fights back."
Salute our elder sister Harutsuge!

But putting that aside...

That day, my heart was beating fast, about to burst open.
I strove not to let my father sense it, but I didn't sleep the previous day.
The events of that autumn day.

But there was a miscalculation.
The truth is, Harutsuge had no sense of direction.

A person without a sense of direction cannot handle an unfamiliar road.
They get lost just by stepping there once.
They get lost a second time, too.

They stop getting lost only after visiting the road many, many times and memorizing the landmarks

They can't imagine the neighborhood map inside their heads, nor can they estimate "that road is connected to this one" because they can't tell the way.

Harutsuge was at that school for a longer time than me, who came to school later. She should have been familiar with local geography...
or rather, she was prone to forget this because the "remembered" the landmarks.

But that time was different.
It seemed Harutsuge had gone to that mountain with her parents. But in times like those, her parents always paid attention for the child not to get lost.

Summing up, those who lead the way are the parents, and it's quite impossible for children to remember the path unless they have excellent memory.

Also, she only went there once.
And from what I hear, her parents were always forbidding Harutsuge, who tried to stray off the path in order to play.

In the end...

...the outcome derived from her specs and from the above-mentioned guide episode...

...well, as expected, everyone got lost.

Harutsuge tilted her head, "how strange."
It appears Harutsuge didn't know she had no sense of direction until then.

Maybe it was the frightening overlapping of coincidences, but the result was that Araragi, who was always with her, was leading the way, and Harutsuge, the boss, was walking behind her.

Or rather, even if you do have a sense of direction, you usually don't remember a mountain path you only walked once!
Why did she say, "I'll lead the way," while brimming with confidence?
Based on what!?

I mean, it was too late to jab, though.

In any case, we were kids who got lost...
and, curiously, we weren't scared at all.

No one cried. Far from it. Everyone was enjoying the situation.

For some reason, we thought, "we'll manage it somehow."

"Together with everyone, we'll manage somehow."

Then, we arrived.

It wasn't the place Harutsuge wanted to guide us to.

But it was very...

Very beautiful.

In that autumn landscape.

Even now, I still haven't forgotten the taste of Hiyo's rice balls from that day.

I think Hiyo decided with rice balls as to not overlap with Araragi who said "sandwich," though she didn't bring it.

Thinking back, Hiyo might had matched with my tastes. I yearned for Japanese cuisine.

It was delicious.
From the bottom of my heart.

"So, a rice ball from someone is this delicious." Honestly, I was about to cry.

Hiyo: ...So, I am the "chrysanthemum."

And out of nowhere, Hiyo said this.

Hiyo: Next, Araragi-san is the "orchid."

Araragi: I'm the orchid? Why?

Hiyo: It's rare to read the Japanese character for orchid as "Araragi." So, Araragi-san is the "orchid" just like that.

Araragi: Wow...

Harutsuge: I knew that.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. Your eyes are shifting with much confidence.

Hiyo: And Harutsuge-san is the "plum blossom."

Harutsuge: I'm the plum blossom? Hmm, so, it's because I'm too cute.

Hiyo: The plum blossom has several other names such as "Koubunboku," "Konohana," and "Kazemachi-gusa" And one of those is "Harutsuge-gusa," meaning 'grass that announces the spring'.

Araragi: Wow...

Harutsuge: I knew that.

Araragi: I wonder why she's avoiding eye contact.

They are the nobles of the plants.

I know this, but what did Hiyo want to say?

After this question, she...

Hiyo: Do you know about the "Four Noble Ones"?

Thinking about it, Hiyo was considerably inarticulate when we first met. But she was a reliable lady at that time.

Hiyo: "The Four Noble Ones" are the orchid, the bamboo, the chrysanthemum, and the plum blossom. Each one is a plant representing one season, and they're praised as the "noble ones."

And she was also very smart.

Long ago, she just blinked her eyes every time I spoke some unusual knowledge. But, out of nowhere, she had learned many things I didn't know.

Hiyo: The orchid is spring, the bamboo is summer, the chrysanthemum is autumn, and the plum blossom is winter. Together they form "The Four Noble Ones."

Hiyo: And this is the common feature I noticed about us four.

"Common feature."
Those words shook me.

Araragi: But why is Sasamaru-chan the "bamboo"?

And for some reason, after Araragi's question, Hiyo...

Hiyo: Eh...b-but...

Hiyo: B-bamboo and sasa almost the same. The only difference is that the large one is the bamboo and the small one is the bamboo grass. Both are from the Poaceae family and Bambusoideae subfamily.

...said it like that.

It didn't sound forced to me.

Rather, it sounded like she wanted to make an even stronger bond than now.

So, I got confused.

"...You sure?"

"I can stay {\i1}here?"{\i0}

There's something I've been thinking about ever since that day when Hiyo held out her hand to me.

I was always thinking about the meaning of "friends."

In those days, I had touched on this world's structure.

This world's structure. When someone treats another as "weak," all around follow the example and perceives him as weak.

And if this someone who treats the weak as "weak" is "strong," this recognition becomes firmer and spreads faster.

There are many reasons to become "strong."
To have strength, to be smart, to have money. Really, many reasons.

And like this, there are many reasons. But the definition of "strong" is truly simple.
Long story short, all living people belong to a community. And the leader of this community is called "strong."

What I want to say is...

The strong ones in the class I belonged to were "two certain sisters." And the one who was inserted into the world's structure after those sisters stared at her was the girl called Kumigami Hiyo.

"Strong" and "weak."
The very easy-to-understand world's structure.

But what's unfortunate for the strong is that there isn't only one strong in this world.

Since "a strong one exists on top of a community," it's natural that there are as many strong ones as there are communities.

If the "strong ones from my class" were those sisters, then there also existed another strong one.

And this was the individual called Kashi Harutsuge.

It was the usual time of Hiyo and me.
After Harutsuge joined us, it became harder for the sisters to meddle with Hiyo.

In addition, the existence of the individual called Yumeno Araragi was also large.

This girl whom Harutsuge called "friend" kept hidden in her shadow, but she was in fact supporting Harutsuge more than anyone.

Honestly, this sometimes makes one hallucinate that "Kashi Harutsuge wouldn't be able to do anything without Yumeno Araragi."

Araragi wasn't as strong as Harutsuge, but, instead, she had a mysterious "power."

Just by being there, she eased the surrounding air. For me, that was like magic.

Even if a dangerous air was drifting, the gloomy air would disperse simply by having her there.

In fact, the sisters sometimes appeared when Harutsuge wasn't around, but they ran away due to Araragi's mysterious power, as if their malice had gone away.

Those two were really amazing individuals.
With them, Hiyo could return to the side she belongs to.
That happiness was irreplaceable.

But one day, I realized...

...that "I wasn't doing anything."

Hiyo said to me, "please be my friend."

We are "friends."

But what did I do for my "friends"?

Her words had saved me so much.

But I hadn't done anything.
I simply "was there."

What protected her was the strong one called Kashi Harutsuge and the mysterious power of the individual called Yumeno Araragi.

I wonder if the feelings I harbored then can be called "sense of powerlessness."

But, at the same time, there was a welling-up feeling strong enough to negate this.

It was an unbearable anger toward "myself, who feels a 'sense of powerlessness' despite not doing anything."

I was different from them.
I was not a human who should be on "this side."

But that hand Hiyo connected...
Now, I'm on "this side" because of that hand's connection.

I pondered about "friends."
I eagerly pondered about it.

I pondered about that amazing feeling.

That's why that day, I...

I stood before those sisters.

Aone: What now?

Alone, I stood before the sisters, the strong ones from that classroom.
The reliable Kashi Harutsuge and Yumeno Araragi weren't there.

I thought I had to accomplish that alone.

It was very scary.
For a being like me to comment on a human from "this side"...
That was a territory that must never be crossed.

Despite that, I...

Sasamaru: Could you please stop acting like that with Kumigami-san?

I stepped over the fence and told them that.

Sasamaru: Please, I beg you.

I frankly told them my feelings.

I thought it all started from a misunderstanding, but, at that time, I finally started thinking {\i1}it wasn't the case.{\i0}

It was a quarrel on "this side."
It was a quarrel originally in a territory that I must not step onto.

Aomai: So, you do like Hiyokel.

I had similar opportunities in the past.

I was simply acting to "remove the misunderstanding," but the younger sister said that every time.

Sasamaru: Kumigami-san's name isn't Hiyokel.

Aomai: It's a nickname. A nickname.

Sasamaru: Kumigami-san doesn't like being called by that nickname.

Aomai: Why? A nickname is proof of friendship, isn't it?

"Proof of friendship."
Perhaps these two were already "friends" with Hiyo, and I simply didn't know it?

Sasamaru: That's probably...

Despite thinking that, smoothly and surprisingly...

Sasamaru: I think it's because I can feel a "malice" from that nickname.

...that statement jumped out of my mouth.

Aone: What, "malice"?

At that time, the older sister finally opened her mouth.

Aone: She's in the wrong. We are doing what's right. Why must you say that to us?

Sasamaru: For argument's sake, even if there were an incident that originated the quarrel between you and Kumigami-san, I think it's no reason to make her feel like that.

Aone: It's no reason? Despite being in the wrong?

Sasamaru: It's no reason.

Aone: What are you saying? Do you need a reason to defeat bad people?

Before I realized, I was tightly clasping my fist.

Then, a surprising statement jumped out of my mouth.

Sasamaru: Could you stop calling my "friend" a bad person?

It was me who was the most surprised by those words.

Then, I realized.

I...

...I was "angry."

I couldn't ignore the sisters hurting my "friend."

Aone: W-what now?

Aomai: You impertinent. Impertinent.

That "friend" said to me.

"I have knowledge."

My "friend" complimented me.

Sasamaru: ...Do you know about this story?

So, I thought there was only one way for me to face that issue.

Sasamaru: Do you know about the "bona fide third party"?

Aone: Bona fide...w-what?

Sasamaru: It's "bona fide third party." Originally, bona fide, that is, "good faith," means a heart to think about others. And conversely, "bad faith" means a heart to harm others.

Sasamaru: But this has a different meaning in law.

Aone: O-okay.

Aomai: Hey, what are you talking about?

Sasamaru: In law, good faith means "I didn't know." Bad faith means "I knew."

I looked at the younger sister.

Sasamaru: A moment ago, you said you were "just playing with Kumigami-san as a friend," correct?

Aomai: What about it?

Sasamaru: However, I'm also "friends" with Kumigami-san. So, I'll clearly express this.

Sasamaru: Kumigami-san feels displeased with your actions.

Aomai: Displeased?

Sasamaru: Means she doesn't like it.

Aomai: Did Hiyokel say that?

Sasamaru: No. I felt this as her "friend."

Aomai: So, let's bring her here and ask her. What you felt might simply be a misunderstanding, right?

Sasamaru: I cannot do that.

Aomai: Why?

Sasamaru: I know about the feeling of "fear."

Aomai: Huh?

Sasamaru: A moment ago, I expressed Kumigami-san's feelings with the word "displeased," but...if I may express her feelings more accurately, they're close to "fear."

Aone: ...

Aomai: You're speaking nonsense. I'm saying to bring Hiyokel here and personally ask her. Go call her alrea...

Sasamaru: I cannot.

Aomai: But why?

Sasamaru: I cannot.

Aomai: We're making no progress. I'll bring Hiyokel here.

The younger sister was about to run after saying this.

Before I could stop her, the older sister held her back.

Aone: It's fine. Continue.

Aomai: S-sis...

Sasamaru: Thank you very much.

Next, I looked at the older sister.

Sasamaru: Then, I'll continue. Next is you.

Sasamaru: A moment ago, you said that Kumigami-san is a "bad person." "It's natural to defeat the bad people."

Aone: What about it?

Sasamaru: But with that reasoning, you'll end up being the "bad people."

Aone: Huh?

After I said that, the older sister got enraged.

Aone: But why!? She's from the Kumigami household, isn't she!? For generations, her house has been...

Sasamaru: That has nothing to do.

I clearly said that.

Sasamaru: You are the bad ones.

Aone: Stop messing with us!

Sasamaru: I'm not messing with you.

Sasamaru: The actions you are doing to Kumigami-san. If these were "unaware," they might not have been your fault.

Sasamaru: But you already know that Kumigami-san is "feeling bad" about it. In other words, it's not "unaware."

Sasamaru: If you continue this act while knowing this...it's "bad faith."

Sasamaru: Those who repeat acts of "bad faith" are the "bad ones." Am I wrong?

Aone: ...Do you know what kind of family she's from?

Sasamaru: I do not.

Aone: I knew it. That's why you can say that. I'll tell you, then. Her family is...

Sasamaru: Whatever it may be, Kumigami-san and I are "friends." Whatever you say, it won't change how I look at Kumigami-san. So, any persuasion is meaningless.

Aone: What's...that about? You serious?

Sasamaru: I am serious. The one who called me a "friend" wasn't the "Kumigami household," it was "Kumigami Hiyo-san."

Aone: ...

At that time, the older sister made a face of being taken aback.

As if she never had thought of separating the Kumigami household from Kumigami Hiyo.

Sasamaru: I don't want you to become a bad person. I don't want you to come to my side.

Aone: My...side?

Sasamaru: However, if you still, if you still continue with the same acts toward Kumigami-san...

Sasamaru: ...I will make you pay.

Aone: Make me pay?

Sasamaru: Yes. I...I will make anyone who hurts my dear "friend" pay.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: What I wanted to say was just this. I'm very sorry for taking up your time.

The older sister was pondering for a while.

Eventually, she muttered...

Aone: ...Honestly, I don't understand what you're saying.

Aone: But she's a bad person because she's from the Kumigami household. If we think this, we become the "bad people." Is this what you mean?

Sasamaru: Exactly.

Aone: ...

The older sister went silent again.

And, suddenly, she asked this.

Aone: And...what's your name?

Sasamaru: ...Me?

Aone: Yes. Sorry, I remember you're our classmate, but I don't remember your face or your name.

//sound only
If you do nothing just because you shouldn't, who will remember you, Suu-kun!?

Sasamaru: My name is Suu Sasamaru.

Aone: Suu Sasamaru. Okay, got it.

After saying that with a strong tone, the older sister was about to leave the classroom.

Aomai: S-sis?

Aone: We're going, Kiyo.

Since that day...

...the bullying of Kumigami Hiyo by the sisters suddenly stopped.

I now ask.

Is it okay?

Is it okay for me to be here?

"It is."

I may stay here in the "Four Noble Ones."

Because I'm their "friend."

I too created one of the reasons for us to be "ourselves."

It's still not enough, but...
It's all thanks to them, but...

...still, I'm fine if they call me a "friend."

With this, I'm able to accept myself.
I'm finally able to.

Hiyo: Eh.

So, I...

Hiyo: H-honey?

...cried.

I couldn't stop the overflowing tears.

Hiyo: H-honey? What's wrong? What's wrong?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, are you hurt? Are you okay?

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Ha-Harutsuge-chan!

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Well, look. The children's animal encyclopedia said that happiness is to be able to cry whenever you want to.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan...

Harutsuge: S-s-sorry. This is the first time I see a boy crying like this. I made a lot of them cry, though.

The dusk was casting a thick shadow.

It was the time when the setting sun hides its face in the hat's brim and, in its place, the stars start sparkling their perfectly round eyes.

It was like that darkness.

But a light was lit there.

A gentle but warm light was lit.

The name of this light's flower is "autumn."

The crimson red light burned the dusk's hat.

That was similar to something.

The sunset.
No.

The sunrise.
Yes, it was the color of the morning.

This was surely...

Surely, the clear morning color.

Sasamaru: I won't forget this scenery.

So, I told them my feelings.

For me, who very rarely talks to other people, those words were truly of a lifetime.

Sasamaru: I'll absolutely never forget.

I thought that was the time I should use it.

I wanted to tell them the honest words from my heart.

In that morning color scenery, it was the first time I had found the meaning of being there.

I thought, "I can be here."

"The Four Noble Ones."

This is my treasure.

A treasure that must never be tainted, worthy of protecting with my life.

//text on screen
"Someday, I want to turn this scenery into a painting."

//text on screen
Words spoken so naturally, as if those words were part of the landscape itself.

//text on screen
"I want to give it shape."

//text on screen
That day was the first time I put my wish into words.

//text on screen
I didn't want someone to grant it for me. It was the first time I "wanted to grant" the wish with my own hands.

//text on screen
With my own hands, I wanted to give shape to that scenery, where everyone who granted me my wish was.

The scenery of the day when I, who was always alone, finally thought, "I'm not alone."

A painting that gives form to the feelings toward those who made me feel that way.

Later, I learned that the "Four Noble Ones" is a name used in painting themes since very long ago.

The spring is the orchid, the summer is the bamboo, the autumn is the chrysanthemum, and the winter is the plum blossom.
It is a motif representing the four seasons.

And in the fundamentals of brushwork—since you can touch on everything through painting the four nobles—this is a very important element when learning the art of painting.

So, that day, I didn't feel that what I had thought was unrelated to being enumerated as one of the "Four Noble Ones."

Even if others think it's absurd or unreal, well...
I felt something like "destiny."

Sasamaru: I came to this Yumemidori Academy to study arts.

Sasamaru: I was able to hold onto my dream because of that day. I discovered something I "want to do."

Sasamaru: So, I could think of only one project to make with Hiyo, Araragi, and Harutsuge.

This is my confession.

What is drifting is a quiet and calm air.

Everyone exchanges glances as they please before speaking out their thoughts.

Harutsuge: Thinking back upon it, what made me aspire to become an artist might have been those words.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge?

Araragi: Me too!

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Hiyo: I'm sure everyone is here...because of that day.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you too?

Hiyo: Yes.

I can't feel any thoughtfulness from Hiyo, nodding as if it was natural.

Sasamaru: ...Sure.

There is simply an inexpressible feeling.

It was there.

There was a place where everyone's feelings became one.

A night sky glittering with stars.

This too will soon change into the morning color sky.

Into the morning color sky painted into our chests since that day.

//subchapter
The Ayanashisai
October 28 (Wednesday)
With You, Here and Now,

Now, I repeat myself once more.

The Yumemidori Academy is the sacred mountain for artists' aspirants.

Now, let's scream in a loud voice without the fear of making mistakes.

The students enrolled at the Yumemidori Academy are the chosen ones. Ones with responsibility and pride in the project they created.

Therefore, what starts now here at the Yumemidori Academy...

A "festival" where each team is assigned a "color" in order to self-express their "lives."

A "festival" that "gives birth" to a project, a child called "colors."

In short, the "Ayanashisai," the festival of living colors.

The morning of the appointed day.

The representatives of each class, who came to school earlier than the other students, submit their projects at the gymnasium, the place at where the Ayanashisai is being held.

The one waiting there is the student council, who is also the judge.
Waka-san.

She asks me...

Waka: Is this a completed project?

...this.

It appears it's a rule to ask this every year.

Summing up, it's a self-assessment for the submitting party.

If we say "it's completed," then that's it.

Only the creator knows if the project is completed or not, and on what basis it is completed.

{\i1}That's why...{\i0}

That's why I can puff up my chest...

Sasamaru: Yes!

...and answer this.

Waka: Good.

This simple reply makes my body shiver.

"Something natural."

The confidence to naturally accomplish the natural event of "completing a project within the determined time."

I can puff up my chest.

Because, despite being "something natural," this is the largest obstacle every creator must face while agonizing and fighting.

Well...

It's finally the opening of the Ayanashisai.

The projects each team presents in turns are all magnificent.

It's a collection of beautiful and undisputed works of art, making everyone realize that they're students chosen by this school, along with their ideas and techniques.

Unfortunately, the yellow team's project couldn't be completed, but...

The yellow team's excellent work, the "Orange Play," is a very deep project combining two conflicting natures expressed by the sweetness of a fruit along with its sourness. You can almost taste it in your mouth.

The black team's project is the "Altar."
Multilaterally representing three counterfeit "black," it is an ambitious project expressing the summoning of God from this single altar, completed only after gathering those three that have a personality almost like a real person.

The white team's "Flake" is a masterpiece touching on the heartstrings as if it was painted with tears, making the human bond thickly emerge from the transience of the melting snow.

And the class who won last year, the blue team project...

...like comparing the magnificent "sea" with the "sky," it is a splendid art piece that makes you reflexively open your eyes wide.

The title of this masterpiece that makes you recall the summer is "The One Who Swims in the Sea."

Not one inch inferior to the creator's overflowing confidence, it is a workmanship that trembles the heart.

I'm shaking again...
after being shown such works of arts one after another.

But this "shaking"...
it's not a shaking of "fear." It's surely a "stir" of excitement.

Sasamaru: (Well, let's go.)

Our red team's turn has finally arrived.

Sasamaru: I'm Suu Sasamaru from the red team.

These are my first words after walking up to the stage.

The students become noisy after my voice resounds inside the gymnasium.

Mixed in this noise, there is a voice with "yellow team's project."

Sasamaru: (It's all right.)

Now, I have everyone from the red team with me.
Everyone is watching over and believing in me, who is standing on the stage.

I take one deep breath.

All right, I'm fine now.
I can be my usual self.

Sasamaru: (But, to have our team be the last one...)

I feel an extraordinary pressure in being the last performer among those distinguished projects.

What an honor.

As someone aspiring to become an artist, I want to respond with the utmost respect for granting me this much pressure.

To this place, the Yumemidori Academy, and to all the students, our rivals, thank you.

Sasamaru: Although presumptuous, representing our class, I'll present the red team project.

Now, at this time, I'm able to bravely let out my voice that's about to become hoarse.

We discussed and decided that I'll represent and stand on the stage.

Discussed...or rather, nominated.
They nominated me.

So, I must be a "bamboo" here in the announcement hall.

Like Hiyo said, "a Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself."

If they so wish...

...here and now, I shall be a "bamboo" that represents and doesn't shame the red team!

Hiyo.

Araragi.

Harutsuge.

Everyone, watch over me.

I'll show everyone in this school the project we worked together to create!

Sasamaru: ...I have dear friends.

The noise is increasing in intensity. They're wondering what I'm talking about.

Sasamaru: They're my friends from before I enrolled in this school. When we were little, we four laughed, got angry, sometimes cried, and grew together.

Sasamaru: However, due to my home's circumstances...I had to bid farewell to my friends.

I'm speaking through the microphone.

Those days since we parted.
How much I looked forward to our re-encounter.
Even if I can't speak the details, I speak these feelings to everyone.

Sasamaru: And a chance to see them once more came to me. My friends, who have the same dream, managed to enroll at this Yumemidori Academy.

Sasamaru: But, although I was able to enroll, I couldn't quite come to school. When I finally managed to come to school for the first time, the seasons completed one cycle and autumn came.

Sasamaru: Everyone, I wonder if you remember when you first came to this school. The first time I saw it, I was captivated by this school's vivid scenery. I was dumbfounded by this unimaginable scenery.

Sasamaru: But at the same time I was deeply moved, I felt this school's scenery as "lonesome." I felt that "this school lacks something."

Sasamaru: Everyone, did you feel like this?

After my abrupt question, the noise arises again.

Sasamaru: Even now, I can't help but feel lonesome. I longed to enroll here. Despite being in the school I love, every day, every single day, I couldn't help but feel this loneliness.

Sasamaru: ...There was a lonely person there.

Sasamaru: This person too had dear friends. Just like me, forming four dear friends. Despite this, this person is now alone.

Sasamaru: Therefore, we all from the red team cooperated to bring this person here.

Sasamaru: Everyone, please. Befriends this person. Please accept this person.

Well, I'll say, in a loud voice, our project.
Well, I'll show them our color.

Sasamaru: I want to engrave this in your eyes, students from the Yumemidori Academy. In your eyes, who know only the other three friends. At this time, this person, all lonely, will finally return to his friends.

The "red team's"...

...Behold the "Four Noble Ones'" project!!

Sasamaru: Then, I'll introduce him. This person is the one our red team brought over...

Sasamaru: ...one of the seasons, the "Autumn."

//text on screen
//video
The red team's project name is...

//text on screen
//video
"Morning Color"

Then, our red team project's presentation ends...

...and this year's Ayanashisai comes to an end.

//subchapter
The Girls' Vows
October 30 (Friday)
With You, Here and Now,

There is a man.

(Eh...)

One man.

One husband.

There is a husband who loved his wife.

(Yes. The husband...)

A scenery as if it was painted with ink.

This scenery, like a "colorless dream," insipid and emotionless, is of a very rough and crude quality.

Despite this...

I'm melting into this scenery painted with ink.

As if it was part of my flesh, this scenery makes me feel a kind of "familiarity."

Despite this...

In the dream world, there's only subjectivity.

No information from the outside world is mixed, like when you're awake. It is a world where self-awareness is reflected as it is.

In short, the dream world is always in the first person. All events develop with oneself in the center. It's never in the third person.

Nevertheless...

I'm a bystander watching the "husband."

This husband is "thickheaded."

I don't know if the representation "thickheaded" is appropriate.

But let's dare call him "thickheaded."

This husband's home has an old, a very old wound.

Yes, an old, very old...

A very old wound, never to heal.

The "home" in this case is not a house. The prime element that constitutes the concept of "home"...

...the people living there.

In short, the generic name for those sharing this blood: a "home."

This home has an old wound.

It isn't a life-threatening wound, but it's deeply damaging this home.

It's not sharp.

It's simply "deeply" damaging this home.

If it were just this, they could blame someone.

They could keep being a victim if it were a wound due to an outer reason.

Because this isn't lethal.

This might be solved if {\i1}someone gives up in frustration.{\i0}

And the wound would have healed itself.

Time is cruel but also very kind.

No matter how deep the wound is, the passage of time will make you forget it.

I do not doubt this, but...

...time is always dragging a servant called oblivion.

However, this home itself refused this visitor.

Yes, they pushed aside the visiting time and poisoned the oblivion.

But they could simply do nothing and wait for the eventual days when they wouldn't feel any pain.

This home itself desired pain.

They desired to leave the pain as is it, like tearing off the crust of a healing wound.

Because this act...this act alone is the only "pride" that makes this home what it is.

And thus, this home kept inheriting this "pain" for generations.

"It will bloom again someday."

"We don't deserve our current social position."

They keep shouting this nonsense, with their feelings shown.

Now, while spitting on the reality before them...

...they keep amusing themselves, buried in their everyday lives.

That's why, for an outsider, this home appears to be inheriting this "pain" as something joyful.

Then, this no longer should be called "pain."

Normally, negative feelings like "jealously" and "hate" sink deeply into the bottom of a dark, stagnated swamp.

The bottom of the swamp is pulled up only when harboring such feelings.

And, aside from these times, their existence is forgotten.

But this home killed the oblivion.

Since they killed it, they can no longer forget. And time passes once more.

Not being forgotten, pulled up from the swamp several times. Along with the passage of time, they draw in similar feelings.

As a result...

...the "pain" is reduced to something different, close to a conviction.

This is why the husband is "thickheaded."

He was born into this home, but only he didn't feel this "pain."

It slips over his head, as if it was someone else's business.

Of course, it tried to possess him.

Because he is this home's eldest son.

Continuously inheriting this "pain," mixing in the blood, in the flesh, in the bones.

This home can only think with {\i1}these{\i0} criteria.

The heir isn't eager to restore the home, but he feels indignation.

But he's the only one whom it can't possess.

The husband...

He isn't pushing it aside.

Nor is he indifferent.

Yes, that's why...

The only appropriate word I can find is "thickheaded."

That's why I should say this.

This husband is blessed with the "thickheaded" talent.

Ordinarily...

Like a blind belief...

Simply...purely...

The man keeps being a husband who loves his wife, as if the pain ailing the home didn't concern him.

...How wonderful this is.

He has a hobby.

He doesn't think of making a living out of it. It's simply a pastime he can immerse himself in.

"Painting."

This might have been one factor that distanced himself from the "pain."

The man always thinks, "I love it."

"Everyone in this home started loving this 'pain.' {\i1}That's why they're able to keep living.{\i0}"

{\i1}"They're able to keep living because they have something to love."{\i0}

He believes so.

The man knows this feeling well because he loves his wife.

But the "thickheaded" talent is his alone.

The rest of the family won't be affected just because he is so.

Borrowing his words, he'd say...

"To love the pain so much that I can't change."

The "pain" is inherited.

Excluding only him.

"What was the pain" is inherited.

From parent to child.

From child to grandchild.

Then, what if...

What if the wife who married into this home couldn't have children?

Because they love the pain, they can live while believing in the "next" one.

The pain can remain because there's a "next" one.

If there isn't a "next" one...

A barren woman.

This is how his wife is called.

A barren woman.

The wife is mocked so.

For, no matter how much time had passed since she married, she couldn't bear a child.

Reprimanded, abused.

Rebuked, censured.

Shouted at, libeled, cursed, scoffed at, defamed, taunted at.

"Damn barren woman!!"

(Ah...)

At this moment, my consciousness that, like a wall, was {\i1}simply looking{\i0}, rises to the surface.

As if the wall that can't do anything but stand there...as if the wall that can't do anything but watch abruptly sprouts a self.

I wonder what the stimulus was.

...Aah, that's right.

A shout.

My consciousness rose to the surface the moment the man shouted.

The feeling was this much strong.

The man shouted.

He's angry.

Enraged with indignation.

...Yes.

Because the wife was being criticized.

Of course he gets enraged when his lovely, lovely wife is criticized.

Even I get angry when those important to me are criticized without reason.

Why must the wife be criticized?

It was too unreasonable.

But in that age, it wasn't "unreasonable." It was overlooked as a natural "common sense."

(Aah, that's right.)

{\i1}The man is thickheaded.{\i0}

Even I consent to this.

I can consent to this.

And at that moment, the man realizes.

He is thickheaded.

Born into this home as a successor, he isn't caught by this pain.

And, not caught in the era's common sense, a "thickheaded"...

...enough to feel indignation.

And at the same time...

I have no choice but to acknowledge that he's thickheaded.

Why didn't he think about it?

Since she married into a home that harbors pain, it's unavoidable she'll be criticized if she can't have children.

Why didn't he think this?

If I may express in his words...

He had a chivalrous spirit.

He had a generous heart.

He had the strength to hold back arrogance.

He had a free spirit as not to be caught in old customs.

He loves his wife more than anyone.

But including all this...

...He is "thickheaded."

(That just now...)

A sensation I've experienced once.

It's deeper than before.

One notch more than before...

...One level deeper, as if the sleep was getting deeper.

A scenery painted with ink.

As if drifting through the silence of the night, a world almost immersed in silence.

But now, it's as if it had gotten a bit of color.

There's now a difference.

Although it's still a shallow dream, I feel that the senses are "heavier" than before.

If the first dream was sugar, then this dream is...

..."wet sugar."

There is a difference in weight.

Is it sinking or floating?

I feel like it's deeper than before but also shallower.

Did I wake up, or am I still dreaming?

Magic.

If such a thing really exists in this world...

...I'm sure it is {\i1}here{\i0}.

Lo, praise his name.
Be frightened, bow, and fall to your knees.
Even without strength, that frightening power shall close your eyes.

It shall put a blinding curse on these eyes, as to never again gaze upon the world overflowing with light.

This depressing darkness is his kingdom.

He desires to increase his slaves.
He desires enough servants to fill his kingdom.

Invisible to the eyes, these arms take away my light.

"Like hell you'll take it away."
Any person will resist him.

Although...
"Charm."
His breath.

He will whisper this.
{\i1}"You'll feel at ease if you give in."{\i0}

Shaking off the evil darkness and offering a temptation that humans who stand up to accomplish their purpose in life cannot resist.

And the race called humans does not possess the means to resist this whisper.

Before you notice, your hand is made to hold the ticket to his kingdom, as if it was imprinted in the genes.

But it's no use.
No use.
Because this is a one-way ticket.

Once you enter his kingdom, you cannot return.
I know this, but this strong urge of wanting to use the ticket is rising.

What a frightening charm.

The heart's shield doesn't help in the slightest.
This temptation weaves its way through the small and unnoticed gaps of this shield, which shouldn't have gaps, and invades my heart.

Sasamaru: Aah. Will I bend to the power of evil!?

My scream of grief is being absorbed into the void.

Lo, praise his name.
Be frightened, bow, and fall to your knees.

Yes, his name is...

Sasamaru: "Back-To-Sleep"...zzz.

Harutsuge: And why are you enraptured in an obscure monologue? Wake up already.

Sasamaru: Zzz...

Harutsuge: And I thought a second plot twist was starting. Hey, wake up.

Sasamaru: ...What is this huge boob? And there's two.

Harutsuge: Still half-asleep? It's time. Wake up.

Harutsuge: And of course there's two. If only one were huge...well, I'd be stumped.

Sasamaru: Huh? It's this time already?

Harutsuge: I know you're tired, but it was you who asked, "wake me up."

Sasamaru: Aah...I remember. Thanks.

My mind is finally working.

The day following the Ayanashisai was to tidy up everything.
Cleaning and taking the trash scattered all over the school due to the production and exhibition of the project's presentation.

Once the creator is engaged in their work, they don't notice the messy surroundings.
And, as if using our own neglect as an excuse, we held the tidy-up work together.

And after it ended, we returned to the dorms and crashed, as if all the tension so far had been released all at once.

In the morning, I woke up once, but...
I asked the nearby Harutsuge: "Sorry, let me sleep a little more."

Hiyo: I-I'm sorry, honey.

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

Harutsuge: Hmm. I'll briefly explain. Irritated by you, who wouldn't wake up no matter how much I called, I left the room.

Harutsuge: I returned and equipped the famous blade "Bathroom Slipper," but Hiyo had guessed my intentions.

Harutsuge: And then, Hiyo-kun let out her fierce man-to-man defense when I was about to punch you awake. But I broke through the encirclement and succeeded in punching you.

Harutsuge: And here's where we are now.

Sasamaru: ...Okay.

I understand the situation way too well. And I can imagine those events very realistically.

Harutsuge: But nice one, Hiyo-kun. It was a hell of a defense. That should work even in world championships.

Sasamaru: And you managed to break through it.

Harutsuge: Well, I did a little trick. I used you.

Sasamaru: ...Me?

Harutsuge: Yeah. Your morning physiological phenomenon was tremendous. I was focusing on its vigor piercing the heavens. But Hiyo-kun noticed my gaze and looked at it too.

Harutsuge: She stiffened with a deep red face, and I punched you a lot at this opportunity.

Sasamaru: I-I can't do anything about it! I'm a man!!

Harutsuge: I'm not blaming you. I just saw something very nice. What a sight.

Shit, damn sexual harassment queen.
She's always with a cool face, but why is she like that when it comes to this?

Harutsuge: Bwa ha ha. Even the strong Hiyo-kun lost to myse...

Hiyo: Honey. I'll caress the bump for you.

Harutsuge: Hmm, trying to earn a profit, eh. You have grown up, Hiyo-kun.

Harutsuge is making the face of a mother happy with her daughter's growth.
What is this relationship about?

And then, after the breakfast...

Harutsuge: Hey, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. To you, what kind of person is Hiyo-kun?

Inside the living room that has turned into an after-breakfast relaxing space, Harutsuge suddenly asks me this the moment we're alone.

Sasamaru: What's that out of the blue?

Harutsuge: I was thinking of asking this after the Ayanashisai ended. I want to hear your frank answer.

Harutsuge: I'm fine with anything. Housekeeper, sex slave, or even a more limited and specific fetish. I won't get mad.

Sasamaru: All of those examples of yours are weird! What kind of answer do you want, anyway!?

Harutsuge: And, how about it?

Sasamaru: ...She's my dear friend.

Harutsuge: Ptui. I don't mean that. There are all kinds of friends, right?

//text on screen
Ptui

Sasamaru: I saw something very horrible just now.

Harutsuge: For example, an object of sexual desire, or a person to feel awkward when you see her after thinking about her during the discharge.

Sasamaru: Wait, why you going on that track!? And what's the discharge?

Harutsuge: The discharge means...

Sasamaru: Aah, you don't have to explain! I can't keep on with this. Let's say that I lost and end this!

Harutsuge: And? How about it?

Sasamaru: Well...if that's what you mean, then...a little sister, maybe.

Harutsuge: A little sister, eh.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Hmm...

As if pondering, Harutsuge groans once and...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: What now?

Harutsuge: Do you have an interest in incest?

Sasamaru: And what are you talking about now!?

Harutsuge: A stepsister is justice, and a real sister is not good? This is the heart of the matter.

Sasamaru: I'm clueless now. I want a translation machine.

Harutsuge: So, as a result of the continuous restriction, you now step back from real sisters. Hmm, you're genuine, then.

Sasamaru: Genuine what!? Wait, how is that my answer!?

Harutsuge: Then, how about a moe stepsister?

Sasamaru: Ah, whatever is fine.

Harutsuge: All right.

Harutsuge nods with satisfaction at my answer. I really don't get her.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

After making an expression of consent, she looks at me as if she was pondering something.

Sasamaru: What is it now?

Harutsuge: Also, I want to ask this for reference.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: If that's the case, then what am I to you?

Sasamaru: Sexual harassment queen.

Harutsuge: Ha ha ha. A queen is more than I deserve. I'm still a mere private, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: So, you don't deny the "sexual harassment" part, eh.

What Harutsuge is to me...huh.

Well, it's a no-brainer.

Sasamaru: For me, Harutsuge, you're an elder sister.

Harutsuge: Eh?

What's unexpected is that Harutsuge shows a face of surprise after my words.

Sasamaru: What?

Harutsuge: I-it's nothing...O-okay. An elder sister. Hahaha.

Sasamaru: ...?

I'm at my wits' end after Harutsuge's unusual reaction.

Harutsuge: But, well, you should at least call me a "miss" or a "sis" and not an "elder sister."

Or so I thought. Harutsuge is back to her normal voice tone.

But I have the impression she's simply pretending to be the normal Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: No, it's "elder sister." No matter how much I think, it's "elder sister."

Harutsuge: Or "sis"...

Sasamaru: If I may choose, I'd choose "elder sister."

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: "Elder sister."

Araragi: Waaah. Sasamaru-chan. There you are.

Sasamaru: Araragi. What's wrong?

Araragi: A b-b-bu-b-bu-bug.

Sasamaru: The "C" one?

Araragi: N-n-not that. A strange one. But very big, making this "kukekekeke" sound.

Sasamaru: ...I don't quite get it, but okay. Leave it to me.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: Hmm...

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: Of course, an "elder sister."

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Harutsuge: "Elder sister."

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Harutsuge: "Elder sister."

Harutsuge: ...Hehe, okay.

Today, we roughly finished tidying up. And now we're having this school festival review meeting.

The first thing I see after entering the classroom is this shield.

Engraved with the words "winner."
What we received: the results of the Ayanashisai.

Sasamaru: It kinda...hasn't sunk in.

Still, I can't suppress my feelings of happiness.

I feel an inexpressible happiness that everything we did returned with this result.

Waka: And the winner class of this year's Ayanashisai is...

Sasamaru: We...did it?

The words that run up from deep inside my throat are a question.

Sasamaru: We...did it?

I repeat it one more time.

The color announced was...red.

The color that echoed inside the gymnasium was...red.

The one chosen as the winner of this year's Ayanashisai is...
our red team.

These cheers of joy rise together with the winner announcement.

Surprise.

Bewilderment.

...In the group of people surrounding us.

What I have is just the obstinacy of walking straight ahead, and the trust, similar to a belief, in my friends.

I wonder if, again, I was looking only ahead and couldn't see around me.

Sasamaru: (Yeah, they're...)

Really, they're laughably...

Everyone, they're all the proud students of the Yumemidori Academy.

Male Student A: You did it! Your project is amazing!

Female Student A: Amazing, amazing! I was crying!!

Everyone is giving us their blessings.
They're lifting us up with faces overflowing with happiness.

There is just pure feelings overflowing.

Male Student B: Wait, how many years has it been since the red team won? Isn't this, like, a major feat!?

Male Student C: Who cares how many years it has been! They won! I have no complaints!

It reached them.
The project we worked on reached their hearts.

Female Student B: Right!? Cheers to the red team!!

I believed.
I believed in their nature as artists' aspirants.

Male Student A: Hey, Suu!

I believed in their unwavering pride.

What is there is simply the bare root as an artist.

Male Student A: Sorry for suspecting you before!

A straight root sweeping over the excess dirt.

Female Student A: You're right. That must have been some mistake. Someone who can make such an amazing project wouldn't do that. I'm sorry! Suu-kun!

They believed.
They believed after I kept running straight forward.

We, artists, are living beings who speak through our projects.

I believed that, if I kept making what I believed in, they would someday believe me.

Sasamaru: ...Tha...nks...

The hot tip of my nose makes my words tremble, but...
they are drowned out by the even hotter cheers.

Male Student B: Hey, red team!

Then, someone raises his voice.
As if it was the opinion of everyone gathered here.

Male Student B: Thanks for showing us such a great project.

A while later, they release us.

With the enthusiasm still not subsiding, there's a sense of unity, as if the school became a single entity with the students in the center.

And when I thought they'd return to their classrooms...

As if she was waiting for it...

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Aone...

Aone: ...Congratulations.

Sasamaru: Tha...nks.

I'm taken aback for one moment.
Though, this might sound rude.

Sasamaru: Yeah, thanks.

I change my mind and honestly express my gratitude.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: If you have something to say, just say it. I don't mind it.

Aone: Well...

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: This is like I'm forcefully making you say it. Sorry there.

And when I'm about to pass beside her...

Aone: ...I'm sorry.

...I hear this almost hoarse voice.

And when I turn over...
there's a girl trembling her shoulders.

Sasamaru: Aone.

Why didn't I notice this?

This isn't the rival who was competing at the Ayanashisai.

It's a grown-up girl, standing there with enough determination to tremble her shoulders.

Aone: I heard from...my sister. About that incident when I blamed you, Sasaya...Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: ...Right.

Aone: She...often slipped out of the dorm at night. Then, she became more obedient since then.

Aone: I thought it was strange, and, one day, I asked her and...

Sasamaru: ...

Good.
So, she stopped obstructing the other classes since then.

I'm relieved.

Aone: She said, "I was found out."

Aone: "But I laid the blame on someone," she said. "I must keep quiet for a while, or it'll be meaningless."

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: She...shamelessly...said this.

Sasamaru: ...Right.

Aone: I'm...sorry.

Sasamaru: But it's not your fau...

Aone: I'm sorry!

She lowers her head while painfully biting her lips.

Similar to this voice squeezed out from deep within her throat, she's honestly expressing her sad but gallant feelings.

Aone: How...should I say this...I...

Sasamaru: You shouldn't worry about that.

Aone: I cannot...do that.

Sasamaru: Though, it's too late to say this.

Aone: I-I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: W-wait, I didn't mean that.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Oops.

Aone: Why didn't you tell the truth?

Sasamaru: I wonder why. I already forgot that.

Aone: E...everyone was misunderstanding you!

Sasamaru: That's not it.

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: It wasn't everyone. There were ones who believed me.

Yes, I didn't say anything about it, but...

...I want to deny this single fact.

Aone: Ah...so, you knew your classmates would believe you? That's why you did that?

Sasamaru: I wonder.

Now that she mentioned it, I wonder what I was thinking about that.
I believe I wasn't thinking about the aftermath.

Sasamaru: I guess I really forgot about it.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Well, honestly, I haven't thought that far. I'm not good with that.

Sasamaru: I simply didn't say anything. It was I who was at everyone's mercy. It's my responsibility for creating that situation.

Sasamaru: So, you don't have to worry about it.

Aone: But of course I'll worry about it!!

It is a voice as if the feelings she was pinning down exploded.

Aone: What if everyone kept misunderstanding you!? You still wouldn't mind!?

Sasamaru: But everyone understood it. It seems they forgave it.

Aone: There's nothing to forgive. You did nothing wrong!!

Sasamaru: Aone.

Aone: C-certainly, looks like everyone isn't skeptical about you anymore, but...

Aone: I thought...that someone who creates such a straightforward project wouldn't do that...that he must simply be bad with words. That this is all a big misunderstanding!

Aone: But this doesn't usually work! Everyone in this school is softhearted to a fault!

Sasamaru: ...You're right.

Sasamaru: Yes, everyone here is softhearted. After all, there's a girl in front of me worried this much about me.

Aone: I...I'm not...worried...about...

Sasamaru: Everyone understood it. You said they are softhearted...of course, I don't intend on denying this. I too think everyone in this school is good people.

Sasamaru: But this was through the project. Everyone understood through the project.

Sasamaru: This is the Yumemidori Academy. Taking responsibility with their projects, everyone created them with pride. So, they understood.

Sasamaru: I'm really glad to have enrolled here. I really feel so. This is enough for me.

Sasamaru: Or rather, I want to thank for that incident.

Aone: You're an idiot!!

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Aone: Y...you might have been bullied!

Sasamaru: ...Bullied?

Aone: Ah...no, it's...nothing.

Sasamaru: ...?

Aone: A...anyway, err...I want to apologize to you.

Sasamaru: It's fine, really. You just did it a moment ago.

Aone: P-properly.

Sasamaru: Your feelings have already gotten to me. Thanks.

Aone: I-it's not an apology if you say thanks.

Sasamaru: Ah...then, I accept your feelings. Thanks.

Aone: Jeez!!

Sasamaru: Ah.

Harutsuge: Oh. What's the matter, Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: Ah, Harutsuge.

Aone: Ah...the brats' leader.

Harutsuge: Stop with that nickname already. That's from years ago.

Aone: But...the first thing I remembered when I saw you at this school was that name.

Harutsuge: I don't want a name that might extend even to my future sister. There's a better one, like obscene or indecent.

Aone: ...Every time I chat with you, I question why you insist so much on those names.

Harutsuge: And I think you're so adorable when you blush a little bit just because of a single word.

Aone: Wha!

Sasamaru: Aah, sorry. She's a little...no, she's very unfortunate. I'll take her outside. Sorry.

Harutsuge: Why did you rephrase?

Sasamaru: Well, let's go, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: So, was my timing perfect?

Sasamaru: Yeah, thanks for the help.

Harutsuge: She's not a bad kid.

Sasamaru: Yeah. I noticed that.

Aone: ...

Aone: Suu Sasamaru.

Aone: You too...never change.

Aone: You didn't change a bit since when we were kids.

Aone: ...

Aone: You should...

Aone: ...get angry at me!

And thus, the Ayanashisai comes to its end.

And now, its result has taken shape and is now here before me.

What's written down is the name "red team."

"Red team."

And I'm in it.
Hiyo, Araragi, and Harutsuge too.
"The Four Noble Ones" too.

And, of course...

Onitake-sensei: Good morning, everyone.

After all's said and done, the teacher kept us company.

I spent all this time without noticing it, but...
I heard this later from Harutsuge.

All this time, the teacher kept waiting all alone inside the classroom until the water mill's lights went out.

No matter how late we were, she only left after the lights of the water mill, which can be seen from the classroom, went out.

As one of our friends, she was all alone in the deserted classroom, thinking "they are fighting."

After Harutsuge saw her, she forbade her to speak by saying: "This is the only thing the powerless me can do. Please don't tell anyone. It'll be my shame."

Sasamaru: Stand up.

After my voice, everyone stands up together.

The four: Good morning.

We greet our class teacher.

Sasamaru: Sit down.

Then, everyone sits down with their respective expressions.

It is an air different from the one so far.
After it passes, the teacher suddenly...

Onitake-sensei: Waaagh! Q-quiet down!

The teacher abruptly screams and covers her eye.

Onitake-sensei: Not here...stop! I don't want to hurt anyone anymore! "Uroboros," quiet down!

Sasamaru: ...

Don't tell me the teacher...
is shy?

Onitake-sensei: Ugh...are "they" approaching? The ones from {\i1}"Grigori"{\i0}?

Sure, sure.

But I...
didn't fail to notice that the teacher glimpsed with pride at the ornamented trophy for just one instant before her {\i1}usual{\i0} acts.

Onitake-sensei: Hah. You do not realize the power of one without the "defiled angel's" powe...

In one moment...
the teacher's movements stop.

And then...

...the teacher falls down with a thud.

Sasamaru: Te...teacher?

I'm wondering what today's setting will be.
My feelings of "if only she wasn't like this" are quieter compared to before.

Sasamaru: Teacher.

The moment I run up and try to touch her...
my fingertips hesitate.

Sasamaru: Te...teacher?

Because a sensation similar to a chill runs through my spine.

The face of the teacher with her cheek on the classroom's floor is pale.
Despite this, her cheeks are dyed red. The sweat rising on their surfaces isn't in a normal amount.

Sasamaru: T...teacher!? Teacher!!

"She's quite elaborate today."
This is no time to think this!

Araragi: Eh...w-what's the matter?

Sensing the unusual situation from my tense voice, everyone gathers.

Sasamaru: Teacher! Pull yourself together! Teacher!

Harutsuge: I'll go get the school nurse.

Harutsuge starts running.

The situation is so sudden that I don't know what happened.

Sasamaru: Teacher!!

My scream resounds inside the silent classroom.

Sasamaru: ...A cold?

Hiyo: Yes. The diagnosis from the infirmary teacher is a cold.

Sasamaru: Aaaah...

I instantly relax my tense shoulders.

Or rather, I'm astonished.

Hiyo: Hehe. Although it's a cold, it's problematic if left alone. We can't let our guard down.

Also relieved, Hiyo is with her usual expression.

Araragi: Is the teacher okay?

Araragi still is with a worried face.

Harutsuge: She'll recover after a good night's sleep.

Perhaps relieved, Harutsuge says this.
I mean, why are you talking like a PE teacher?

Araragi: Which reminds me, the teacher didn't look well these last days.

Yes, I do recall that.

Still, I didn't think, "are you okay?" because it might be taken as a different, "are you okay?" due to the teacher's usual behavior.

Hiyo: ...Perhaps...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: Ah, it's nothing.

What Hiyo was about to say is probably what I'm thinking.

Although her usual curious behavior captivates us, the teacher didn't look so well recently.

And now, everyone is pondering this.

"Why did she get a cold?"
Or "why did it worsen so much?"

Sasamaru: ...

It's needless to point out.

She was secretly keeping us company.

Did she get a cold because of this? Did the cold get worse because she kept us company?
We don't know.

But there's no doubt that the reason she overdid it until she collapsed was us.

Hiyo probably held her tongue because she thought I'd worry.

Harutsuge: I wonder.

And the one who takes this into consideration and speaks out is Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: It's the teacher's responsibility that she caught a cold.

I think, "oh boy."
Harutsuge is always like this.

Her behavior always invites misunderstandings because she doesn't start her conversations with "I don't mean it like that" or "don't get me wrong."

People who don't know her can only take this at face value.

But we all know that.

Araragi: What do you mean?

The fact that Araragi is asking despite all this isn't because she took Harutsuge's words at face value. She's asking while taking into account the personality of "Kashi Harutsuge" that only we know.

Harutsuge: No, I simply thought it's rude to the teacher to think it was "for us."

Harutsuge: The teacher did what she thought to be logical as a teacher. That's all there is to it.

Araragi: Hmm...

Harutsuge: I don't believe the teacher wants us to feel guilty with "she overdid for us" or "it's our fault."

Sasamaru: That's true.

Harutsuge: So, I think we should be proud that our class teacher is a splendid one.

That's our elder sister.
It's always Harutsuge who sums up in times like these.

No one is speaking, but everyone agrees with these words.

Araragi: Well...colds seem to be spreading recently. We too must be careful.

Harutsuge: Yeah. The teacher will worry if even us get a cold.

Hiyo: The fatigue so far might have piled up...and we're in between seasons. Their bodies might not be catching up to the sudden temperature change.

Araragi: Which reminds me, the teacher said there's a health examination after the Ayanashisai ends.

Ah.
She did say that.

Harutsuge: When is it?

Hiyo: No idea. I was sure this topic would be in today's homeroom.

Kumatake-sensei: Ah, everyone. Nice timing.

Then, Kumatake-sensei arrives.

Kumatake-sensei is the blue team's teacher. He's a male teacher with a name a bit similar to Onitake-sensei.

Kumatake-sensei: This was scheduled for Onitake-sensei to tell you, but she got sick, so, I'll tell instead. It's about the health examination.

What a timing.

Sasamaru: Understood. And when is it scheduled for our class?

Kumatake-sensei: It's today.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Kumatake-sensei: Or, more accurately, it's now. Get ready.

Sasamaru: Wait, err...there's no time to mentally prepare?

Kumatake-sensei: Do you need to mentally prepare for a health exam?

Sasamaru: Well, there's the possibility of discovering some weird disease.

Kumatake-sensei: Okay, okay. Go to the infirmary in a bit, then.

Sasamaru: Umm. Why don't the teachers of this school listen to others?

Harutsuge: Now that we're changing seasons, something crossed my mind. We change our season clothes after the Ayanashisai ends.

Harutsuge says this when we're heading to the infirmary.

I've heard about that.
In this school, the time to change season clothes is a bit late. It's after entering November.

Hiyo: Yes. Today's the last day we can wear summer clothing.

Harutsuge: And, Hiyo-kun. I see you're wearing the school uniform for a change.

Yes, Hiyo almost never wears the school uniform.

It has been quite some time since I first came to this school, but I have seldom seen her in the school uniform.

I don't think she...hates the uniform, but Hiyo has always worn the clothes she likes.

The school uniform isn't enforced. She must prefer everyday clothes.

Araragi: It's my first time with winter clotheees.

Harutsuge: Ooh, it's true.

Harutsuge makes this daydreaming expression.

Harutsuge: Hehehe, Hiyo-kun's winter clothes. Hiyo-kun's winter clothes.

Araragi: Well, maybe this is where I should get angry.

Sasamaru: Hey, you, having evil daydreams over there. You're not keeping up with the conversation. We're leaving you.

Harutsuge: What? They aren't moe to you? Hiyo-kun's winter clothes aren't moe to you?

Sasamaru: Wait, moe? Well, I haven't seen this school's winter clothes yet.

Harutsuge: You idiot. All the more reason to let your imagination go wild. You dumb. Idiot.

Sasamaru: What emphasis is that?

Harutsuge: Seasonal clothing is a great event in student life. It's a road everyone walks on. Chuckling 'hehehe' while imagining that girl you like wearing a different uniform.

Sasamaru: Wait, aren't you mistaking your priorities?

At this moment, I overlook something unthinkable.

Now, at this moment, I feel an unthinkable discomfort.

Hiyo, Araragi, Harutsuge, and me.
The discomfort of {\i1}we four heading to the infirmary.{\i0}

I didn't notice it.

...I said all that with a suggestive meaning, but I notice this before arriving at the infirmary.

So, we're now formally at this unexpected health examination.

Sasamaru: Umm, why am I here?

With the school nurse before me, this is the first thing I ask.

Igase-sensei: It's the red team's health exam. Of course the red team students will be in the infirmary.

By the way, the school nurse's name is Igase-sensei.

Sasamaru: No, I'm not talking about that.

Igase-sensei: Hmm? Is there a problem?

Problem...

Health examination.
Women x 3
Man x 1

Taking the clothes off and placing a stethoscope on the chest.
Women x 3
Man x 1

Sasamaru: Right? It's odd, isn't it?

Igase-sensei: All right, everyone. Clothes off.

Sasamaru: School nurse, you too!? Why are men and women together for a medical checkup!? This is weird no matter how you look at it!

Igase-sensei: Because it's by class.

Sasamaru: You're letting it pass just like that!?

Igase-sensei: You go to the same dorm, don't you? You go to the bath together, study the male and female body differences and poke them against each other, don't you? It's too late to worry about being naked.

Sasamaru: We don't do that! The bath is separate! Wait, what's that indulged school life about!?

Harutsuge: Well, nothing to worry, Sasamaru-kun. It's too late, too.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, you too!? You sure? Really? We'll look at you, okay!? You fine with me looking!?

Harutsuge: But, no matter how much we hate, you always enter the bathroom while grinning, as if you had obtained a good reason: "It's mixed bathing," "it's mixed bathing."

Sasamaru: I don't enter there! The hell you talking about!?

Igase-sensei: Aah, I knew it.

Sasamaru: Hey! Stop consenting!!

Harutsuge: You've already looked at all the places that can be looked at.

Sasamaru: And why the teary eyes!? Hey, your acting is too good! It really feels real, stop it!!

Igase-sensei: Against other's will is no good, you hear? No good.

Sasamaru: Look, she believed it! This is terrible, those eyes are perfectly believing, and also despising.

Harutsuge: Oh boy. If you're so bothered, just close your eyes and problem solved.

Sasamaru: Aah, but I may look due to an irresistible force.

Harutsuge: If you're so bothered, just poke your eyes and problem solved.

Sasamaru: Just by changing one word, things have become one notch more dangerous!?

Araragi: Now, now, Sasamaru-chan. This is how it is, so, we don't mind much.

Sasamaru: Do mind! You're being too considerate, Araragi-san! Sometimes calmness is a sin!

Sasamaru: Wait, why am I, the man, the only one objecting here!?

Araragi: Well, because it's you, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Uh...

This phrase is too underhanded.

I can take it as "they allow because it's me."

Harutsuge: But, depending on the point of view, this can be taken as "Sasamaru-kun isn't regarded as a man."

Sasamaru: Aah!! I was avoiding thinking that!

Now, of all times, is when she displays a "most thoughtful and sensible" consideration.

Wait, that's not the point.
Yes, she said that it's "too late" and it really is. We're already too accustomed to our dormitory life, but...

...I'm extremely reluctant to bring all that into the school building.

But at that time when I had just re-encountered Araragi...

Araragi: J-jeez, how careless of me. I can't walk in my pajamas anymore, right?

Sasamaru: Err, well...

Araragi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha~

Araragi, who was so reluctant at that time, is now saying that if it's me, she's fine even while wearing underwear.

Although I'm about to cry from our distance shortening, Araragi was embarrassed at that time because "he saw me without the bank president attire." I have no idea what this means.

Araragi: But there's one problem.

Sasamaru: Right, right? There's a problem, isn't there?

Araragi: Today's health examination was so sudden that I'm not wearing the bank president's attire. It's the normal one.

Harutsuge: Hey, that's where you should feel relieved instead.

Look, now she's worrying about something completely different.

Aaaaaaaah, jeez.

Sasamaru: Hi...Hiyo, you don't want it, right?

I find hope in the last stronghold: Hiyo.

The ero-minister is needless to point out, but the healthy-and-energetic girl hasn't guarded anything.

But the faithful, neat, and reasonable girl will surely...

Hiyo: Err...well...

After kneeling, she sits straight and places her fingers on the floor.

Hiyo: I...I may be inexperienced, but I'll do my best.

She performs this extremely traditional greeting.

Igase-sensei: What kind of se...dormitory life is your class having?

Sasamaru: A normal one! We're having a fair and normal dormitory life! Wait, you were about to say "sex" just now!

Igase-sensei: Aah, jeez, what a small-minded boy. Just marry the three of them already.

Sasamaru: That's legally impossible! And why did the topic change to that!?

Harutsuge: On the contrary. Right now, there's about one girl who thought, "I want to be beside him even if I'm the number two."

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san! Don't spread it!

Igase-sensei: What an amazing se...dormitory life!

Shit, I'm sinking deeper and deeper.

Igase-sensei: We're wasting time here. Let's finish this on the double. On the double.

Igase-sensei is tediously puffing out tobacco smoke.

Wait, she's smoking in the infirmary room.
But now is not the place to jab at that.

Araragi: Ah, I'm sorry. Sasamaru-chan, let's stop now, okay?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun is a master at finishing on the double. He climaxes prematurely.

Hiyo: I-I may be inexperienced...but please...

Dammit, they're too unrestrained.

Someone, share with me the jabbing role, anyone.

And after all that, our class' health examination starts.

A place's aura. What a scary thing it is.

Igase-sensei: All right, first is...the sex offender, come up.

Sasamaru: Teacher, I have a question.

Igase-sensei: No question. It's you.

And I'm the leadoff hitter.

I didn't know a health examination was so oppressive and miserable.
I found something new today.

Hiyo: I may be...inexperienced, but...

She's still with that.

Sasamaru: (Hmm?)

After looking at Hiyo, a good idea comes to me.

//choice
No choice. I'll obey and finish this already.
After having an idea from Hiyo, I...

//1st choice

...No, I should think about how to quickly end this.

I stand before Igase-sensei.

Igase-sensei: All right, good. Next.

Sasamaru: Wait a moment. You haven't examined anything.

Igase-sensei: It's all right. Someone like you is most likely healthy.

Sasamaru: School nurse, do your job.

Igase-sensei: Aah, shut up. Okay then, take your clothes off.

As instructed, I take off my jacket.

Igase-sensei: Oh...

Sasamaru: What is it now?

Igase-sensei: You have a surprisingly nice body.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Igase-sensei: Hmmmm...

...Err, I'll feel shy if you keep staring like that.

Harutsuge: She's eyeballing Sasamaru-kun.

Hiyo: Umm, teacher? Please refrain from jealo...envious acts that are unrelated to the health examination.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan. You rephrased but still said your true feelings.

Igase-sensei: It's fine! It's a sex crime if a man does to a woman, but it's lovely if it's the other way around.

I just saw the microcosm of a problematic issue of modern society.

And thus, the health examination ends successfully.

Igase-sensei: Yes, good work. To me, that is. Students, back to your class.

Harutsuge: Well, what an understanding teacher this is.

Sasamaru: I'm feeling sick by imagining you when you grow up.

The two: Sorry. I thought you weren't there.

You two, get married already.

//2nd choice

Sasamaru: ...Thanks, Hiyo.

I softly put my hand on Hiyo's shoulder.

Hiyo: Eh?

After having an idea from Hiyo, I enshrine myself in the corner of the room.

I art a stone.

Harutsuge: Oh, you're amazing, Araragi-kun. I knew you looked slim in clothes, but those are some frighteningly huge boobs.

Araragi: Don't say hugeee.

Harutsuge: And in such a short time. Let's see...

Araragi: Ah, hey, hey. No touching!

The conversation is the same as the rain.
The rain may caress the surface of the rock, which is myself, but it will never affect it.

And no rain lasts forever.
With the passing of time, the rain will stop, being absorbed into the soil, drying up, and dispersing.

Thus, I art a stone.
Clear your mind. Clear your mind.

I shall simply sit down and wait for the rain to stop.

Araragi: Huh? Sasamaru-chan, what are you doing?

It appears Araragi, after noticing my behavior, has approached me.

Araragi: Sitting on your knees in the corner...covering your eyes with a towel, and it's even tightly wrapped. Doesn't it hurt?

Sasamaru: I art a stone.

Araragi: A stone?

Sasamaru: Indeed. I art restraining myself as to not releaseth the beast inside the ones with XY chromosomes.

Araragi: Hmmm?

Araragi is tilting her head...
I think.

However, I art a stone.
I art a stone

Harutsuge: Don't mind him, Araragi-kun. That wuss cannot repress the blood flow to his erectile tissue while he is together with us in the physical examination, so, he's avoiding reality like that.

Sasamaru: I art a stone. I art a wuss. However, a wuss hast the dignity of a wuss.

Araragi: I still don't get it.

Harutsuge: I said, "don't mind," Araragi-kun. That is the classic type that wants to be argumentative. He wants to see so much that he plays cool by pretending to not want to see it.

Hiyo: He is suppressing his emotions for our sake. What a sublime individual he is.

Harutsuge: No, {\i1}that{\i0} is the type who regrets later.

Hiyo: When that happens...well, although inexperienced, I will...

Harutsuge: Hey, you heard that, Sasamaru-kun? There's a goddess here.

Sasamaru: I art a stone.

Harutsuge: Ptui. It would be cuter if you let out a bizarre voice of "yahoo! It's paradise!" while eyeballing us and trying to touch at every opportunity.

Hiyo: He will never be ungraceful like that.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun? Think well about it. He is a wuss who doesn't make a move at the key moment and lets his chance at love escape.

Harutsuge: Well, he's already at full speed on the wuss highway. But why is he trying to increase his speed? Where does he want to go?

Hiyo: He is himself. He is himself even if he is sitting on his knees, blindfolded, handcuffed, and with candlewax dripping on him.

Harutsuge: You shouldn't accept all and every thing. Listen. You must have Sasamaru-kun worship your sexy figure.

Hiyo: I'm fine if that is his wish.

Harutsuge: Phew...oh boy. Then, is that over there a stone?

Hiyo: Yes. If that is his wish, then it is a stone.

Harutsuge: Look closely at him. He's begging to be jabbed at. It's rather pitiful if you don't jab.

Sasamaru: I art a stone.

Hiyo: Look, he is a stone. Let's approach him as such.

Harutsuge: Hmpf. He's letting out beams of "care-for-me." Sasamaru-kun is maso, a maso. That's a disease in which he dies if you don't care for him.

Sasamaru: I art a stone.

Hiyo: It really seems to be a stone.

Harutsuge: There you go, feigning ignorance. Those who want to get a laugh by being toyed with are maso. With self-deprecating jokes or with aberrant actions. Conversely, sadistic ones can only get a laugh by toying with others.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. Which one do you think Sasamaru-kun is?

Sasamaru: I am not maso.

Harutsuge: Look, he reacted.

Sasamaru: I art a stone.

Hiyo: Maso...I mean, a stone.

Look. They acknowledge me as a ma...
no, as a stone.

Boulders will have their wills. I can do this.

?: ...

I wonder what this is. It feels strangely close.

Or rather, it's a breath.
A bewitching and sweet breath close enough to tickle my nasal cavity.

Araragi: Take it off already. It hurts, doesn't it?

The person of the breath puts her hand on my blindfold.

Oh no.
There's one more person!

Sasamaru: Foolish one who believes I art a human. Withdraw that handeth this instant.

Araragi: But it's getting deep red.

Sasamaru: Good. The restraint shall be undone once the raineth is over.

Araragi: Hmmmm. I don't get it, but I'll loosen it a little bit, okay?

Whoa!!

Araragi: Yup. This is better.

No, no! I can see it! I see it! It's loosening!

Sasamaru: Y-young one. Fasteneth it once more!

Araragi: I said it's deep red. It hurts just by looking at it.

Sasamaru: It is good. I feeleth no pain, for I art a stone.

Harutsuge: Hmm? What's wrong, Araragi-kun?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan is saying, "tie it tighter," and, "that doesn't hurt a bit."

Hey! That wording is strange!!

...Ah.

Ah, oh no. Drat. It loosened even further.

Harutsuge: It's your turn next, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Ah, okaaaay.

Wait, don't go, I beg you!!

...She's gone.

Hmmm...

Confirming the present situation.

In this area, four chromosome XX-type specimens who have lethal weapons effective against chromosome XY-type.

Confirming white gown equipment to neutralize lethal weapons on one of them.
Excluded.

Three remaining.

Assessing situation.
The three are assumed to be armed with only underwear over the lethal weapons.

Danger. Danger.
Destructive power easily exceeds my armor, even without the lethal weapons.

Sasamaru: (What do I do!?)

Well, what can I do during a health examination?
I can't exactly run away.

Therefore, I art a stone. I art a stone. I art a stone.

Hmmmm.
I've calmed down.

No proble...

Whoa!!

Harutsuge: It has become bigger again. What should I do?

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: The seat of 'woman of boobs only' has become even firmer. What on earth should I do?

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hey, Hiyo-ku...

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun is with a sulking face I've never seen before.

Hiyo: That is not true. Isn't that your imagination? Hohohoho.

Harutsuge: What is it? Was there something shocking at the health examination?

Hiyo: No, not at all. I've already given up on the numbers themselves. And with someone beside me worrying about the complete opposite, hohohohohohoho.

Hiyo: Enormous breasts? Hah. There is this urban legend that, when riding an airplane, the silicone inside enhanced breasts expand and burst due to the difference in air pressure, hah hah hah hah hah hah hah hah hah hah.

Harutsuge: I'm finally aware of your complex. How do I say...well...I'm really sorry.

Hiyo: You did nothing wrong.

Harutsuge: If you think so, please look at my eyes, I beg you.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Throb.

Harutsuge: Hmmm?

Chromosome XX-type specimen number one, code name "ELDERSISTER," is gazing at me.

Harutsuge: Hmmmm?

Approaching. Approaching.

I repeat, "ELDERSISTER" has entered the effective range of her lethal weapon.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. You...can see it, can't you?

Sasamaru: I art a stone.

Harutsuge: Sure, a stone.

Sasamaru: A stone.

Harutsuge: Sure, sure. And leaving that aside, you can see it, can't you?

Sasamaru: A stone. A stone. A stone. A stone. A stone. A stone. A stone.

Harutsuge: ...

"ELDERSISTER" is stunned. "ELDERSISTER" is stunned.

Confirming usefulness of Project "Feign Ignorance."
Continuing.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Whoaaa!?

Emergency. Emergency.
Chromosome XX-type specimen number two, code name "BLACKNURSE," entering attack stance.

Harutsuge: And what are you doing, Hiyo-kun?

Hiyo: I-it's nothing. I'm not conscious of his gaze at all.

Durability below half.
HQ, requesting retrieval. I repeat. HQ, requesting retrieval.

Araragi: Huh?

Sasamaru: Whooooaaaa!?

HQ! HQ!!

Chromosome XX-type specimen number three, code name "MIDDLEAGEDMAN," in front of me!!

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you still with that? Take that off already.

I shake my head left and right.
Shake my head.
Shake and shake and shake and shake and shake my head.

My head...

Araragi: Ah.

The two: Ah.

Hiyo: Honey! Honey!!

Igase-sensei: Hmm? What? Wow, that's a big sea of blood. Hey, hey. Make a picture of hell after you return to the dormitory. It's a pain to clean everything.

Hiyo: D-don't you have something better to say and to do as a school nurse?

Igase-sensei: Doesn't he have blood to spare? He's a wuss who doesn't make any moves despite this many members having gathered. Must be piling up a lot. It's better to let it out a little.

Harutsuge: That's our teacher who doesn't care for others. A splendid observation.

Igase-sensei: Right? I haven't lived this long for nothing.

Hiyo: Aaah! Honey is critical! H-honeyyyy!

Igase-sensei: All right, you're all done.

The examination is finally over.

Igase-sensei is very, very lazily putting the patient records in order.

After one glance, she writes as if sketching a flip book. You don't wanna do it, do you?

Igase-sensei: Good, what a fine waste of time this was.

Sasamaru: You may think that, but I think you must not speak it out loud, school nurse.

Igase-sensei: Why are you so high and mighty jabbing with your nose stuffed with tissue? I mean, you all don't have any problems in particular.

Sasamaru: Ah, that's what it was.

Your behavior is always questionable, so, please stop with statements that might give the wrong idea.

Igase-sensei: The blood test results will be given later...ah, I forgot to take the temperature. Good, let's take it in order.

Sasamaru: Is that really something left for last?

Igase-sensei: Don't be so picky. I've never heard of a person dying because someone forgot to take the temperature.

That might be true, but please make an "oh no" face a little.
Just a little bit is fine.

Igase-sensei: Here, the thermometer.

Sasamaru: Ah, yes.

Igase-sensei hands over the thermometer.

Sasamaru: It's quite an old-fashioned thermometer, isn't it?

It is an analog and not a digital thermometer. Also, quite an old model one.

Igase-sensei: Yeah, that's my hobby.

Hobby!? Don't bring your hobby to work!

Igase-sensei: When I was a kid, I learned those thermometers used mercury...and also that mercury is a deadly poison. After that, I used it while being nervous if the poison would leak out.

Igase-sensei: And I'm using this analog one to share with you all this uneasiness.

Sasamaru: I'll take it, then.

Igase-sensei: Wow, he ignored me. He grew up in such a short time.

But of course. I have an elder sister exactly like you near me.

Hiyo: By the way, the mercury used in thermometers is harmless if the body absorbs it while it is still in the liquid state. Although, it will have a negative effect on the body if the vaporized steam is absorbed.

Igase-sensei: Whaaat? Really!?

Why are you so disappointed?

Well, and my temperature is...
36.2℃.
Normal temperature.

Sasamaru: And you, Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: 35.6℃. My normal temperature is a bit low.
 
Sasamaru: I can consent.

Harutsuge: Why is that?

Sasamaru: You're the type to be called "a heart colder than a snake's skin."

Next is Araragi.

She says this with the thermometer still in her armpit.

Araragi: Speaking of which, the thermometer gradation only goes up to 42℃, right? Why is that?

Such a simple question.

Hiyo: Because it is not necessary.

And the one who answers this is, sure enough, Hiyo.

Araragi: But what if the fever is higher than that?

Hiyo: Do not worry. Humans die if the temperature surpasses the body's upper limit, which is 42℃. There is no meaning in measuring above it.

Araragi: ...

Hiyo: If I may explain how the death is...

Araragi: N-no, no, it's fine. Don't say it!

Hiyo: Oh my, what a pity.

//choice end

And thus, the health examination ends, and we return to the classroom.

Sasamaru: But the teacher isn't here. What will we do about the lesson?

Harutsuge: Isn't it self-study?

Hiyo: Wait, it's almost time for lunch.

Sasamaru: ...It's true.

How much time did we spend at the health examination?
Well, it's not surprising. After all, there were two Harutsuge there.

Harutsuge: There!

Sasamaru: Ouch! What was that for?

Harutsuge: Intuition.

But even one is a mighty foe.

Sasamaru: Well, let's have lunch, then.

It's a bit too late to say this, but our school lunch is a lunch box.
As the dormitory life represents, the school respects the students' independence.

And each dormitory prepares each of their meals and ingredients separately.

In short, almost everyone eats lunch boxes.
Although, there might be students who return to the dorms to have lunch.

Harutsuge: Well, everyone. Now is our happy, happy lunch box time.

Saying this, Harutsuge, who is the one on duty this week, takes out everyone's lunch box.

What jumps out after she opens the lid of a very cute lunch box is...

...first, the vanguard.

They are uneven rice balls. Circular but not. In a shape that an equation to find the area should work but doesn't.

The edible seaweed, cut up haphazardly and without regard to the fine view, is with a worm-eaten shape.

Second is the steamed meat dumplings.

It is a brave attempt at homemade cooking. The green peas are arranged according to the feeling of "it doesn't have to be in the center. It's all the same once it's inside the stomach."

And it's already with soy sauce, as if saying, "you're going to pour soy sauce on it anyway." It's not hard to imagine how much the insides of the lunch box rampaged on its way here.

The main player.
The fact that a deadly weapon with a "What is this? Execution tools?" feeling is jumping out is because she tried to take out the bones but felt tiresome halfway. It is salmon cuts filled with this sensation.

Looking closely, there's a sensation of "I'm taking acupuncture because my shoulders were stiff lately."

The fourth competitor.
The fourth one is not dealt with by ordinary means.

With one glance, an appearance that makes you think "wow, what a fluffy and delicious-looking rolled eggs," but it's, in fact, crispy.

Unveiling the secret of its birth, it's probably covered in the sentence "I tried to make a proper one, but it's a pain to pay attention to the fire."

And finally, the last competitor.
Its name is "octopus sausage."

The last has dignity, indeed. The cooking itself might have gone well, but, perhaps to improve the mood, she pierced them with toothpicks to make it easier to eat, but, as a result, the oil gushed out.

And as a result, it became a dish that looks like it's crying, or maybe calling out to something, or maybe keenly questioning, "what does it mean to 'live'?"

Sasamaru: Thanks for the food.

I take one spoonful into my mouth and...
the seasoning spreading inside my mouth cavity is excitement itself.

It's not actually bad.
It's an edible seasoning, and also an amount that fills the stomach while not seeming much.

But something's off.
It's different from what you'd expect from a "girl's cooking."

Yes, this is a...

Yes, if I may compare...

The mother passed away after an unfortunate accident.

A family with only the father and the child.
Despite every day being busy with work, the father strives with new dishes for the sake of the child.

It is his first time in the kitchen.
He doesn't know where the seasoning is.
"Ah, if you were still alive, we'd be..."

"No, no. I must stay strong." The father waves his head left and right and renews his determination.

"He's looking at me. I must keep myself together."

Far more than himself, who is sad for losing his wife, the child who lost his mother at an early age must be feeling far lonelier.

The meal is finally done.
It's unshapely, and the seasoning is confusion itself.

"It's bad," grumbles the child.
"I want to eat mom's cooking," whines the child.

After listening to it, the father makes a troubled face.

After this, they have a take-out meal.
Despite having his favorite food, the child still let out an "I want to eat mom's cooking."

The next day, the father is again in the kitchen.
"Today I'll do it," he starts cooking with enthusiasm.

He bought many ingredients and tries many seasonings while looking at a cooking book and reminiscing about his dear wife's meals.

"Should I add this or that?"

The father regrets always leaving everything to his wife.
He now realizes the blessing that was she.

But now he's alone. He has to make it.
The child is waiting with his stomach rumbling.

Still, the child says, "it's bad," and doesn't eat it.

The truth is, the taste doesn't matter.
The child is simply lonely.

He doesn't know how to face the fact of "no longer be able to see his mother."

Not knowing what to do, he simply takes out on his father.

But...
no matter how many leftovers there are, he looks at the back of his father, cooking every day without complaining.

The child gradually starts noticing that what he's doing is "not good."

And, recently, he also noticed this.
The meals are getting tastier little by little.

It's his mother's seasoning from back then.

The father's back is different from the mother's but...

...both are very warm.

Why didn't he realize this?
Why was he so selfish?

"Father, I'm sorry."
For some reason, the child can't say these words.

He's an honest boy, but there are words he can't say clogged inside his chest.

So, on a certain day...

...the boy eats everything the father had prepared with much love, and says this with vigor.

"Father, I want seconds!"

Harutsuge: And why are you crying?

Sasamaru: Well...it went well for the father...*sniff*...and the child was really a good kid.

Harutsuge: ...?

Ah, no, no. I'm off the track.

Summing up, Harutsuge's cooking is like "the father's cooking gradually becoming better."

From the opening to the seasoning, everything is rough and hearty. It's indeed a "man's cooking," but it's actually good once you eat it.

It's different from a good-cooker father standing in the kitchen with a cheerful "can't wait to start cooking." It's really a meal from a father "working hard for his child."

Yes, if I may compare it with an occupation...

He has a hard-to-approach personality of an old-fashioned occupation that never gives in.
He is an obstinate father, no matter how you look.

Though, the truth is that he's always thinking about his family.

He's the same as always.
Working just like always.

Even after the mother passed away, he didn't show a single tear.

Only the number of the occasional sighs has increased.
Only the amount of times dropping the shoulders unnoticed increased.

When returning to the house where the child awaits, he starts cooking in silence, as if {\i1}nothing had changed.{\i0}

While saying to himself, "aah, this isn't tasty at all," every day he makes the meals for the child.

Hiyo: U-umm, honey?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: What...is the matter?

It's nothing. Nothing!

Bluffing like this, the father is always working hard for his family.

His back is large because he is swallowing up all the painful and sad things.

Sasamaru: No, it's nothing.

Father, I want to become like you.

Thank you! Thank you very much!

Hiyo: Err...umm...

Hiyo's expression tells me she's having trouble in asking.

Hiyo: Is Harutsuge-san's cooking...so delicious that...you're crying that much?

But she asks this as if she had resolved herself.

Sasamaru: Eh, yeah...Harutsuge's cooking is...delicious.

Oh, no, I'm again crying after remembering it.

Hiyo: So...honey, you prefer the meals Harutsuge makes.

Harutsuge: Hold it, Hiyo-kun. You two are not on the same page.

Hiyo: I'm sorry, wait a little...I must revise my cooking training plan...and first...

Harutsuge: Wait. No doubt he's getting something wrong. I can affirm this.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san. I don't need that pity.

Harutsuge: Wait, listen to me.

Hiyo: But I won't lose.

Harutsuge: Well, if this were a match, it would have already been decided.

Hiyo: Nngh...composure to spare, I see. But it's fair, it's so good that it made him...cry.

Harutsuge: Wait, hear me.

Hiyo: But I want to do what I can. I can give up after I give my best.

Harutsuge: How weird. This dialogue is so weird. Rethink that veeeery carefully.

Araragi: It's rare to see Harutsuge-chan going all-out with the jabs.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun. This is an unprecedented crisis. Of course I'm desperate.

Harutsuge: Anyway, Hiyo-kun. Stop thinking about changing the direction toward my cooking. Don't take away the bliss time we have when you're on duty.

Harutsuge: It's sad for me to say this, but I'm aware of my own skill. Compared to you, I can't even say, "well, you just don't realize how good my meal is."

Harutsuge: Or rather, I'm now sad after saying this.

Hiyo: Wh...what I want is...

Harutsuge: No, I got it. Your throne is still firm. For Sasamaru-kun, your meals are the best ones. Please, reconsider about reconsidering.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: You understand me?

Hiyo: Then, give me just a hint. What is the trick to your cuisine?

Harutsuge: Would you forgive me if I apologize, Hiyo-kun?

Lunch break. Harutsuge and Araragi are together in the classroom.

Hiyo was seriously at a loss. "Go take a walk," Harutsuge sent her out along with Sasamaru.

Araragi guessed her intention and stayed in the classroom with Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Oh, boy. But Hiyo-kun too has her troubles.

Araragi: What is it now?

Harutsuge: It's okay to be gallant, but she's pampering Sasamaru-kun too much. In the future, he'll become a man who can't do anything alone.

Araragi: Hiyo is good at backing up. I think it'll be all right.

Harutsuge: I'm saying that she's too good. Is the person himself even noticing that she's supporting him?

Araragi: The so-called good wife and wise mother.

Harutsuge: Putting aside if she's a wise mother or not, she sure is a good wife.

Araragi: So, you honestly recognize the truth but are relentless with the checking itself.

Harutsuge: But...they say that "a good wife turns the husband into a good husband." But Hiyo-kun is a bit different.

Araragi: She's different?

Harutsuge: Also, the words "a good wife and health are the most valuable treasures of a man." This is pregnant with significance. I think it's quite right. But we can't quite apply this to Sasamaru-kun.

Araragi: Ah, yeah. I somehow got that.

Harutsuge: Yes. Sasamaru-kun is so thickheaded he should just die already.

Araragi: I won't go that far, but...you don't need to agree so hard.

Harutsuge: There's no meaning if Sasamaru-kun doesn't notice that Hiyo-kun is a good wife. If the husband doesn't notice the value of a good wife, she won't be a treasure to him.

Araragi: Hmmm, but I kinda yearn for that.

Harutsuge: Give me a break. I won't keep my composure if even you turn into that.

Araragi: Our elder sister sure has it hard.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Hmm?

Harutsuge: W-well, f-first, if Sasamaru-kun doesn't notice Hiyo-kun's efforts...

Harutsuge: ...she won't be rewarded.

Araragi: That's...well, true.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun should emphasize with "you can't do anything without me! It's a matter of time until you become a cardboard master, whether you want it or not!"

Araragi: No matter how much you soften that representation, I think she won't do that. Specially that second half.

Harutsuge: But this is the only way.

Harutsuge: If at least she said, "honey made from the garbage of the universe, I'll seriously set you on fire if you don't notice my value. Ah, it burns so easily. Just like real garbage."

Araragi: That's impossible. I mean, it's becoming harsher. And why are you with a face of "I just said something great"?

Harutsuge: Hmm. Maybe I should rephrase it like "as expected from garbage"?

Araragi: That's not where you should worry about. You're missing the point.

Harutsuge: Well, Hiyo-kun is always pampering Sasamaru-kun. Do you call that the "Nightingale effect"?

Araragi: Hmmmm.

Harutsuge: I think that's a bit different from pampering.

Araragi: I know what you want to say, but...when you summarize Hiyo-chan's feelings like that, I think "hmmmm" a bit.

Araragi: I feel like...you agree to it just because you found an appropriate word.

Harutsuge: You say it's something more lofty?

Araragi: I won't say that, but...

Harutsuge: But?

Araragi: I think it's something more pleasant.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge makes an awkward smile, as if she was sighing.

Harutsuge: Got it. I lost.

Araragi: Okay.

Harutsuge: Then, Hiyo-kun's feelings are transference love. That one Freud talked about.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, you admitted defeat a moment ago based on what?

Harutsuge: I can't live honestly.

Araragi: Really. And you even know that, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: What are you talking about?

Araragi: Hiyo-chan said you're just using "that" as an excuse.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: There has never been a "patient." Never, since very long ago.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: I don't know what's bothering you, but...

Araragi: ...how about accepting their relationship already?

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun?

Araragi: Hmm?

Harutsuge: ...

Looking at the silent Harutsuge, Araragi sits down.

Sits down...or rather, sits in.
She knows the fact that Harutsuge is in silence is not because she doesn't want to talk.

She's in silence because she's choosing the words and sorting out her feelings.

So, Araragi waits until Harutsuge prepares herself.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun...is a good man.

Araragi: Yup.

Harutsuge: No, he became a good man. Way better than before.

Araragi: Yup, yup.

Harutsuge: But Sasamaru-kun is...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...Sasamaru-kun is thickheaded.

Araragi: Yup, yup, yup, yup, yup.

Harutsuge: That's why you two are being led by him.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: I'll take neither side. I decided on this when I was little.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: But if you ask me, "which side do you want to take?" I will...

Harutsuge: ...choose Hiyo-kun without hesitation.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: Do you know why?

Araragi: Well...

Harutsuge: Yes. Hiyo-kun rams at Sasamaru-kun without hiding her good will. As a friend, I think it's natural that I root for her.

Araragi: Yeah.

Harutsuge: In fact, you too are rooting for Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: Yeah...I am.

Harutsuge: So, I wanna ask. Are you fine with it?

Araragi: Eh?

The place's air changes.

Harutsuge: Not even once have you said it. You probably have never said it to anyone.

Harutsuge: It's not something that must be said. You're avoiding it. You yourself are deceiving your own feelings. You're submerging your feelings in the shadow of "we're friends."

Harutsuge: And on top of this, you're trying to put Hiyo-kun and Sasamaru-kun together.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun is as thickheaded as ever. He really should die already. He's so thickheaded that I can't help but want him to die already, but...

Harutsuge: ...still, "something" is starting to change.

Araragi: Yeah.

Harutsuge: So...I wanna ask. Are you fine with it, Araragi-kun?

Araragi: Weren't you taking sides with neither?

Harutsuge: I'm not taking sides. This will be the first and last time I ask this.

Harutsuge: {\i1}I want to warmly support them now.{\i0}

How long is the interval after she lets out these words?

{\i1}That's why{\i0} the one who eventually continues is Harutsuge.

As if she was taking responsibility for finally firing the first shot.

Harutsuge: Until now, the situation didn't change, no matter how much the others supported. I guess I was too accustomed to this.

Harutsuge: And thus, although small, I can feel a "change." They might be hesitating a bit.

Harutsuge: If you {\i1}do nothing as you've been doing,{\i0} I'll take that as your wish. The next time I see them, I'll root for Hiyo-kun.

Harutsuge: She's blinded by love, but she'll never impose her feelings. But too much of doing nothing is also a problem. She needs someone's support.

Araragi: I...I was imposing my feelings?

Harutsuge: I don't mean that.

Harutsuge flatly says this.

Harutsuge: Not even once did you show your good will to Sasamaru-kun.

Araragi: I...like Sasamaru-chan.

Harutsuge: Yes, of course. But {\i1}in your case, that's toward everyone.{\i0}

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: You're like a holy woman. You display your good will by unsparingly pouring your love on everyone.

Harutsuge: That's something I can't do. I respect that. I honestly admire it. You're a person who can approach others with a smile, even if the other party hates you or says awful things. You're a very strong person.

Harutsuge: {\i1}That's why it's very hard to understand your love.{\i0}

Harutsuge: Yes. As you said, Hiyo-kun isn't Nightingale. She's just one girl, earnestly devoted to the man she's in love with.

Harutsuge: Her love too is hard to understand but for a different reason.

Harutsuge: Like this, {\i1}you won't be able to win against a Hiyo-kun who expresses special feelings.{\i0}

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: I'm sure you like Sasamaru-kun. You like him more than others around you. But that's simply good will as a "close friend." In other words, it's no different from what you give us.

Harutsuge: This is why, long ago, I thought your feelings weren't love. A "boy" among our closest friends. That's why it's different from what you give us. It's just "sympathy."

Araragi: I...I...

Harutsuge: Sorry, I'm not criticizing you. Sorry for being unable to say with better words.

Harutsuge: I simply wanted to make it clear. I was always bothered, "perhaps I'm misunderstanding something."

Araragi: Misunderstanding?

Harutsuge: Yes. Maybe you simply haven't realized that your feelings for Sasamaru-kun are "love."

Araragi: ...!

Harutsuge: I know you like Sasamaru-kun. I'm sure everyone but the person himself knows, too. And Hiyo-kun, more than anyone.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: The fact you can't step forward is because you're intentionally pinning it down, or haven't realized it, or don't know your mental state.

Harutsuge: So, I want...to make it clear.

Araragi: Maybe the result is already decided?

Harutsuge: That might be so. But I want to hear from your mouth.

Araragi: And what if I say that I haven't realized?

Harutsuge: It'll be the same as usual. Leave it to the course of events.

Araragi: So, you believe me.

Harutsuge: Of course. We have been best friends even before we met them.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: It doesn't have to be right now. But now that something is starting to change, if we keep waiting like we've been doing...

Araragi: I'm no match for you.

Harutsuge: No match?

Araragi: Yeah, I'm no match for you, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: And also for Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: Is that your conclusion?

Araragi: That's right.

Harutsuge: Are you fine with it?

Araragi: I was always, always thinking about this. I just didn't show it. I didn't show it since long, long ago.

Araragi: Everything is like you said, Harutsuge-chan. That's why I made you confused. Sorry.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: All right, I've made up my mind. I'll make things clear, too.

Araragi: I'll support Hiyo-chan.

Araragi: But not as I've been doing. I'll straightforwardly, from the bottom of my heart, support Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: No need to go that far.

Araragi: I decided on this when my best friend gave me advice. "This moment" is necessary for me.

Harutsuge: Are you fine with it?

Araragi: Yeah. Then, Harutsuge-chan. Could you hear my decision?

Harutsuge: Yes, but of course.

Araragi: I'll root for Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: Sure.

Araragi: Also, when I feel that Hiyo-chan and Sasamaru-chan's feelings have united, I'll confess to Sasamaru-chan.

Harutsuge: Eh.

Araragi: And I'll be wonderfully rejected.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun, don't be so despera...

Araragi: I'm not desperate, Harutsuge-chan.

Araragi: This is my own way of taking responsibility. {\i1}I'll no longer turn my back on my feelings of loving Sasamaru-chan.{\i0}

Araragi: {\i1}So, I'll root for Hiyo-chan from the bottom of my heart.{\i0}

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Right?

Harutsuge: I'll ask then, Araragi-kun.

Harutsuge: Are Sasamaru-kun and Hiyo-kun a matching couple?

Araragi: They are made for each other!

Harutsuge can't hide her feelings of surprise.

Since long ago, Araragi was a girl who always smiled even when in pain, but she's clumsy at hiding.

The appearance of the smile made while taking others into consideration, trying its best to hide the fact she's being considerate despite not hiding it completely, is brave and also painful.
This is the girl called Yumeno Araragi.

This is why her smile is unexpected.

It is indeed a smile.

From the eyes of Kashi Harutsuge, who knows Yumeno Araragi better than anyone...
this is her smile.

This is why Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: Then, I'll root for Hiyo-kun without fear.

Harutsuge: I swear this to none other than {\i1}my dear friend Yumeno Araragi.{\i0}

Araragi: Yeah.

At this moment, a familiar figure of a person appears in the connecting hallway, which can be seen from the classroom.

It's the couple the dear friends wished to unite just now.

Harutsuge: Well, Araragi-kun. I think I don't have to say this, but...

Araragi: The peeping called watching over, right?

Harutsuge: That's my partner. And forward we go.

Araragi: Yup, yup.

Hiyo: Let's play house?

Those were my magic words.

And if there are starting words...
there's also ending words.

The "playing house" always ended with the fixed words.

That day, that time. The playing house that started from someone's idea.

Contrary to my expectations, I was in the role of the "wife."

And then...
thinking about it now, it was logical, since there was only one man, but...

...he was in the role of "husband."

"Honey."

The moment I was aware of this, my face became bright red.

Because I'm the "wife" and he's the "husband."

This means...

Thinking again, this is logical since it's this kind of "child's play."

Hiyo: Let's play house?

Those were my magic words.

The "playing house" always ended with the fixed words.

Harutsuge: To protecteth our Meal Legend, soldier Sasamaru. Thou, the chosen one, shalt taketh princess Hiyo from this castleth.

At lunch break, Harutsuge passed down these prophetic orders.

Sasamaru: (No idea what she said.)

No idea, but, now that she drove me out of the classroom, I gotta accept.

Although, in the world list of "people with whom you can spend a fun time," you can find my name faster by counting from the bottom.

In the end, the best I could think of was to go buy drinks at the connecting hallway with Hiyo.
And it's even right after lunch.

Sasamaru: (But it's what Harutsuge said.)

She joked about that meal something, but she must have had a different meaning.

It seemed that she said that on the spur of the moment, but, in fact, she took action after carefully thinking.

We obeyed what Harutsuge said because we know this.

She's not "our elder sister" for nothing.

She's prone to being misunderstood because she always speaks with jokes.

Sasamaru: How do I say, Harutsuge is like Rommel, isn't she?

Hiyo: Rommel, you mean the German Army's Erwin Rommel who served during World War II?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Rommel was the first army general who came from the middle class.

He was an excellent commandant, even praised as "the best strategist since Napoleon," but he was valued for his honest character brimming with the spirit of chivalry.

And just not nationally. There were admirers even among the enemy army.

In the end, he committed suicide by poisoning because he was charged with the suspicion of Hitler's attempted assassination, but it became clear after the war that Rommel was against a plot to assassinate Hitler.

He thought that if he died to protect his honor instead of facing trial for suspicion of treason, his family's safety would be assured.

And Germany was heading for defeat.
That was also for the citizens not to think that "we lost this war because of a betrayal."

Until right before his death, when he swallowed poison, he didn't say a single word of defense.

This is just my arbitrary impression, but Harutsuge is similar to him somewhat.

And while I'm thinking this, Hiyo...

Hiyo: Oh. Then, who am I?

...asks this with a joking tone.

Sasamaru: You are...

Several words cross my head and disappear. All of these don't quite fit.

But there's one that's close to the image of "Hiyo as far as I'm concerned."

Sasamaru: ...maybe the Nightingale. Not the appearance, though.

Hiyo: Oh my. You're praising me as the "Angel of Crimea"?

Florence Nightingale.
A famous Italian nurse who became the origin of the word "white angel."

She personally applied for the Crimean War. The mother of the nurses, being called the "Angel of Crimea" due to her remarkable performance.

Sasamaru: (But, if I may choose, I feel the "Lady with a Lamp" nickname matches Hiyo more.)

This was also one of the nicknames of Nightingale.

In any case, there's no doubt that she, who is obsessed with "nursing," reminds of Nightingale.

There's no doubt, but...

Hiyo: Thank you very much, honey. Those words are more than I deserve.

...this too doesn't quite fit.

Hiyo: But...I {\i1}cannot become{\i0} Nightingale.

Hiyo words, right after I think this, are unexpected.

Sasamaru: {\i1}Cannot become?{\i0}

Hiyo: Yes. Because Nightingale existed...tried to exist for all the patients.

Hiyo: Exactly as the words, "an angel is not one to scatter beautiful flowers, it's one who fights for the sake of those in distress." Meaning that she's fundamentally contrary to myself.

Sasamaru: Is that...so?

Unable to grasp the meaning of these words, I tilt my head.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: ...?

After tilting my head, I suddenly realize.

Hiyo is obsessed with the patient who is "me."
Maybe this is what she means.

Yes, this is different from Nightingale, who existed for everyone.

Hiyo: Hehe.

Looking at me, Hiyo smiles in amusement.

Sasamaru: Does that mean...

Harutsuge: Look. Sasamaru-kun is clueless again. What's going on with his train of thought?

Araragi: Hmmm.

Harutsuge: I got fed up with the word thickheaded.

Araragi: I was thinking. Maybe Sasamaru-chan isn't thickheaded. Maybe he doesn't get other's intentions because he doesn't see other's good will toward himself as a given.

Harutsuge: And don't we call that thickheaded?

Araragi: Hmmm, maybe.

Harutsuge: But that might be right on point. We can look at it from a different point of view.

Araragi: Right, right? So, if Sasamaru-chan logically interprets Hiyo-chan's "actions," he might someday arrive at the conclusion.

Sasamaru: Does that mean...

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: Does that mean you're obsessed with a single patient?

Hiyo: Eh!?

The two: Eh!?

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: Did I...get it wrong?

Hiyo: N-no! Err, well...

Sasamaru: ...Right.

Hiyo: Ho...ney...

Araragi: Ha-Harutsuge-chan! It's here! The big bang-ish one is here!

Harutsuge: Ooh...God.

Harutsuge: I don't have a speckle of piety and have never prayed in my life. Honestly, I don't know to which God I should tell this, but...thank you.

Harutsuge: Amen. Hallelujah. I sincerely believe in Amitabha. Two bows, two claps, bow once, zombie powder. I'll combine all of them.

Araragi: S-sorry! I have no time to jab!

Sasamaru: Then...that's how it is.

Hiyo: Ah...umm, well...

Sasamaru: So...I got it wrong?

Hiyo: It's not wrong! I...

Hiyo: I...I...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: Yes. That's correct. It's exactly that.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: This...is how I am. I'm always troubling you.

Hiyo: T-that's not true. Honey, you're not...

Sasamaru: No, it's the truth. I'm forever worthless.

Hiyo: But honey. You're so elegant because you're always reprimanding yourself like that.

Sasamaru: Thanks. But even if that were the case, I'm so worthless that I'm only able to stand here if I reprimand myself.

Hiyo: It's why you're like that, that I...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: I...will always support...

Sasamaru: Hiyo...it's okay. It's all right. I got it.

Hiyo: D...does that mean...umm...

Sasamaru: Hiyo...I...I...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: I...

Sasamaru: My only good point is my health. You don't have to worry so much, okay?

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: ...Eh?

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Ah...ha ha ha. W-well, so, that's the punchline.

Araragi: B-but! This was a great step forward! Sasamaru-chan understands her. He is getting better. Right, Harutsuge-cha...

Harutsuge: Ahaha, it's exactly as you say, Araragi-kun.

Harutsuge: Well, Araragi-kun. Don't stop me.

Araragi: Where did you take that katana from!?

Harutsuge: I learned that a katana has "the time you have to draw it." And "the one who knows this is a true samurai." And now is the time.

Araragi: Wait, wait, wait!!

Harutsuge: Come, good-for nothing. I'll kill you. So, come and kill me.

Sasamaru: Huh?

What is this? The air has changed.

As if my skin was stinging, as if my throat was dry.
There's a peculiar air coiling about.

And when I turn over...

Sasamaru: ...Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: Target Lock-On.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: Oh? It missed?

Sasamaru: H-h-hey! It grazed my cheek! It hit!!

Harutsuge: I tried to hit.

Sasamaru: You're using that wrong! Wait, that's not a laughing matter!

On today's lunch break...
for some reason, I'm pursued by a smiling Harutsuge waving a real sword.

The "playing house" always ended with the fixed words.

"Playing house."

We played house only two times.

It always ended with the fixed words.

"Playing house, over."

That play ended after someone said this.

The first time, it ended like this. So, the second time, it was kinda like a custom.

But there was no ending signal at the third time.

The third time playing house was vague, without the ending signal.

That's why I...

It was quite a busy day.

But we finish the day with...

Sasamaru: Then, to celebrate our Ayanashisai victory...

Sasamaru: Cheers!

The three: Cheers. Cheeeeeers! Cheers.

...a celebration party at our dorm.

Harutsuge: But who'd have thought we would win.

Araragi: Right? I was so shocked.

Hiyo: Hehe. It was his proposal. Wasn't that a natural result?

Sasamaru: No, no. It's all because of everyone's hard work.

This is kinda embarrassing, but I feel like I can't suppress the overflowing happiness.

Sasamaru: Everyone, I truly thank you.

Once more, I express my gratitude to everyone.

Hiyo: Y-you don't have to, hon...

Harutsuge: Y-you don't have to, honey. That's unnecessary.

Harutsuge: But if you're still unsatisfied, I don't mind repaying you in bed. Ohohohoho.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. Harutsuge-chan. Danger. Hiyo-chan is turning into something like an evil god.

Harutsuge: So, God has finally descended upon my Sabbath. Everybody, tonight will be a feast, an orgy.

Araragi: Ah, that's where you're hopping on.

Sasamaru: Or rather, why are you drunk right at the start? You're way ahead of people who get merry and tipsy without even drinking.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san? I have something to discuss with you later.

Harutsuge: Just the two of us?

Hiyo: Yes, of course. Just the two of us.

Harutsuge: Good, good. Hah hah hah hah.

Araragi: Amazing. You seem to be in sync, but you're not.

But I'm relieved that everyone is having fun.

This is the place where we praise our accomplishments and care for each other.

And in this, Araragi is with an out-of-place face.

Sasamaru: What's wrong?

Araragi: Ah...well...

Araragi is feeling a bit reluctant.

Araragi: I wish the teacher was here.

Sasamaru: ...Me too.

I agree with her mutter.
I knew she was bothered too.

Hiyo: That's true...but there's nothing we can do.

Everyone here is bothered that the teacher isn't here.

We decided on this celebration party the day before the Ayanashisai. Of course, we invited the teacher.
But...

Onitake-sensei: The ones who gave their best were you. I haven't done anything. I have no right to join you.

Onitake-sensei: The party should be held to celebrate the result of your capabilities and, also, your hard work.

She said that and turned down the offer.

I was hoping she'd change her mind when the day arrived, but what a bad time to get sick.

Sasamaru: We should have really postponed it.

Hiyo: No. I think your decision was correct.

Sasamaru: I...wonder.

The truth is, I still haven't decided.

Harutsuge: No, the teacher would feel bothered if we had postponed because she got sick. Sasamaru-kun, I think your choice was correct.

Araragi: Makes sense. If we held back, the teacher would feel bad instead.

Hiyo: The teacher is far more of an adult than any of us. She will understand.

Harutsuge: That's our Hiyo-kun. Words that prove you knew for a long time that the teacher wasn't simply a person with {\i1}that{\i0} characteristic from puberty.

I'm sorry. I thought she was simply a person with {\i1}that{\i0} characteristic from puberty.

Araragi: The teacher was playing around while holding down what should be held down.

Hiyo: Yes. She always gave brilliant lessons.

Araragi: And she teaches so well.

I'm sorry...I'm sorry, teacher...I'm sorry...

Hiyo: What's the matter, honey?

Sasamaru: Well, I was just thinking about how I can't judge character.

Harutsuge: You noticed that now?

I feel a "don't worry" intention in her statement, like a hearty "hah hah hah" laugh.
And my mind is thrust into the very bottom.

Hiyo: H-hey, Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: Got it. Sasamaru-kun is affected by these.

Hiyo: Why are you making that "I learned something" face? You too were misunderstanding the teacher, weren't you?

Araragi: Speaking of which, it was Harutsuge-chan who first said "{\i1}that{\i0} characteristic from puberty."

Harutsuge: Yes, I said that, but I didn't say, "she wants attention because she's lonely," or, "she's actually trying to stand out because she wants others to notice her awesomeness."

Harutsuge: Nor did I say, "she became an adult still with {\i1}that{\i0} characteristic from puberty."

Harutsuge: I just guessed that she's like that because "isn't it cool that I'm a full-fledged adult but still full-throttle with {\i1}that{\i0} characteristic from puberty?"

Araragi: That's quite the difficult and complicated illness.

Hiyo: I wonder if I'm the only one who thinks all of those choices are bad.

Harutsuge: Well, in any case, let's go with a bang. A bang. Right, Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: Ha hah...leave me be. I'm a garbage of an existence.

Harutsuge: You noticed that too late. Don't worry and go out with a bang.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: So far so good.

Hiyo: H-honey. I-I...also have admiration for garbage.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan. That's not quite right. And that's an outrageous reveal from all that panic.

Harutsuge: Well, to celebrate this day, when I obtained an efficient method to embarrass the resistant Sasamaru-kun...once more, cheers.

Hiyo: You over-sadistic.

Harutsuge: Hahah. Then, let's get along as the good sadistic friends we are.

Araragi: Is Hiyo-chan sadistic? I'm a bit slow to notice these things, but I think she's a bit different.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun is sadistic. She far surpasses me in intensity.

Araragi: Hmmmm.

Harutsuge: I know, I know. What's bothering you is that Hiyo-kun sometimes has a masochistic side.

Harutsuge: Toward others, she's sadistic, no exceptions. But to the man she loves, she's masochistic. This is Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: I feel that's kinda off.

Harutsuge: I know, I know. Hiyo-kun is over-masochistic. Only toward Sasamaru-kun.

Araragi: Not that. I feel Hiyo-chan is sadistic basically only to you, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Eh?

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: ......

Araragi: Ah, she's feeling down.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun. From now on, your nickname is "Death."

Hiyo: Then, Harutsuge-san. Is "Josephson device" okay for your nickname?

Harutsuge: Jo...what?

Hiyo: Josephson device. It's an electronic device designed by physicist Brian Josephson.

Hiyo: It is expected to be a perfect computer device that surpasses the silicon element, but, due to the application cost, it hasn't yet been implemented.

Harutsuge: Err...summing up?

Hiyo: "It should be useful, but it's not."

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Aah! Harutsuge-chan is turning into a corpse!

Hiyo: Oh my, I'm sorry. I'll rephrase it to "frankly it's not necessa"...

Araragi: H-Hiyo-chan! Harutsuge-chan is already feeling sorry! Don't deliver the finishing blow!

Hiyo: Well then, I'll concede the finishing blow to you, Araragi-san. Whisper at her ear, "the result is crystal clear, isn't it?"

Araragi: Aaah! Harutsuge-chan! Harutsuge-chaaaaan!

Hiyo: And, honey. Don't mind Harutsuge-san's ramblings, and let's enjoy the evening.

Sasamaru: I art dust...cosmic dust.

Hiyo: Oh my. Honey, even the teacher will worry if you're not feeling well, okay? We must enjoy with all our might for the sake of the teacher, too.

Sasamaru: ...You're right.

It's exactly as Hiyo says.

Sasamaru: All right, now that's decided...

Harutsuge: Yeah, it must reach the teacher in Heaven.

Araragi: Ah, she revived.

Hiyo: What a swift recovery.

Sasamaru: Wait, she's not dead, not dead. Don't kill her out of nowhere.

We dampened our start.
Good one, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: But the teacher is such an idiot.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Am I right? Trying to act cool and keeping us company, then, she catches a cold and can't participate in our fun party.

Harutsuge: She must be wetting the pillow with tears of regret. Jeez, she really likes to act cool.

Sasamaru: (Oh, boy.)

Although this is normal, Harutsuge's words themselves appear simply as reckless remarks.

Unless you "know" her to a certain extent, you won't peacefully listen to her.

Sasamaru: (But this is what Harutsuge is saying. It must be pregnant with significance.)

And while I'm here trying to guess the meaning of our elder sister...

Araragi: H-how can you say that?

...Araragi suddenly says this.

Araragi: The teacher did all that for us!

Sasamaru: Hey, hey. No fighting.

Unbelievable, even Araragi is into the mood.
Where's this conversation going?

Araragi: B-but...that just now was cruel.

...Huh?

Sasamaru: H-hey? Araragi?

What's the matter? This is her usual...
Is she drunk?

And you can tell what Harutsuge wants to say if you listen until the end.

Harutsuge: An idiot is an idiot. There's no other word for her.

Sasamaru: ...Harutsuge?

What now? Harutsuge is awfully severe, too.
Normally, she just lets that slide.

Harutsuge: Also, "I have no right to join." Just say you don't want to participate in our meager celebration.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan!

What's up with them?

It's...

Sasamaru: (...not like them.)

I wonder if they're seriously drunk.

But even if they were drunk...
I'd never imagine it would turn into a quarrel like this.

Of course, we're all humans. Everyone gets stressed out.
They must have complaints. Without letting out, this is simply accumulating.

Still, I think that is not exactly this.

Sasamaru: (I wonder what this is.)

For me, the conversation's flow, the place's air, all this...

{\i1}...feels extremely unnatural.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Ah, no. More importantly...)

Hiyo: Well, let's call it a day.

At this moment, Hiyo abruptly says this with a smile.

And then, Araragi...

Araragi: Whaaaat? It's still earlyyy.

She lets out an unusually childish voice.

Hiyo: But you're all tired, aren't you? How about finishing this early and continue on a later day?

Nice one, Hiyo.
After Hiyo's words, everyone looks at each other and recovers their composure in one instant.

This wouldn't be possible if our numbers were larger, but...
this is a great proposal, fitting for the occasion.

Besides, everyone really is tired.
We were continuously working in order to complete our project in time for the Ayanashisai.

But of course.
Fatigue is a natural enemy that makes humans say what they don't even think.

Sasamaru: You're right. It's already late. Let's call it a day.

With one more person aboard, the place naturally enters closure mode.

Araragi: I wanted to party a little bit more.

Hiyo: Let's do it another time. We'll invite the teacher then.

Araragi: Hmmmm...okay. Let's do that.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, you're considerably drunk too, aren't you? I'll tidy up the glasses.

Harutsuge: Are you saying I get drunk from this little alcohol?

Sasamaru: Okay, okay. I know you're a heavy drinker.

Harutsuge: HEAVY DRINKEEEEEER!

Harutsuge: Ahahaha! Ahahahaha!

Sasamaru: No, you're drunk. You're clearly drunk, Harutsuge.

Thanks, Hiyo.

//subchapter
This feeling comes from where?
October 31 (Saturday)
With You, Here and Now,

We wake up in the same place. But everyone wakes up differently.

So, in the morning, although we slept in the same room, we sometimes see each other in a different place.

Sasamaru: (I wonder if Harutsuge and Araragi have woken up.)

Although this is our definite gathering place in the early morning, we also have breakfast here.

On this first day off after the Ayanashisai has finally ended, they might sleep until noon.

Sasamaru: (I'll make a delicious meal for everyone.)

I'm itching to make something exactly because the Ayanashisai has ended.

Although...

...I feel a bit uncertain about yesterday's events.

Araragi: 'Morning...

Araragi arrives with an expression different from her usual drowsy one.

Sasamaru: What's up?

Araragi: My head huuurts.

Harutsuge: A hangover? How pathetic, Araragi-kun.

In contrast, Harutsuge, who arrives a bit after, is the same as always, with a calm expression.

Araragi: Uuugh, Harutsuge-chan, you all right?

Harutsuge: Drink but don't drown. It appears as if you're drinking like a fish, but you're actually keeping a proper dose. This is called ladylike manners.

Araragi: I'll be careful~

I'm relieved. They're back to normal.

So, yesterday, it was just a bit of drinking too much and the fatigue.

Well, now that I have peace of mind, what should I do?

We were immersed in the project all this time. I don't know what to do on this abrupt day off.

Or rather, the problem is that I don't know how to spend the day off.

Sasamaru: (Perhaps...Am I an extremely boring person?)

Though, it's too late to say this.

However...
having time also means being able to calmly think about this.

Sasamaru: (I'll return the favor to Hiyo.)

This is the most important point.

Debts beget debts.
Once you propose a favor, you'll have your feet buried in it and won't even be able to walk.

But, no matter how much I think, I can't come up with a way to repay her favor.

Today, I have time to calmly think about this, but this doesn't mean I wasn't thinking before.

But my worthlessness is the same as ever. I can't come up with a way to make her happy.

Because Hiyo herself doesn't consider the numerous deeds to me as "debts" or "favors."

"She says this, but her real feelings are elsewhere."
Everyone obviously thinks this, and it's natural to think this. But she's different.

She really thinks that "it's natural that I do this" and approaches as such.

No jokes, nor modesty and, of course, nor self-depreciation.

This is close to pure volunteer work that doesn't seek any compensation.

If I say "repay" to such a person...
judging from her personality, she'll be considerate instead.

She might act reserved with "I didn't mean it like that" and won't be honestly happy.

This won't repay the favor.

Sasamaru: (What should I do?)

It won't work unless she becomes happy.
It must be something that expresses my everyday gratitude.

Sasamaru: ...

Also, the origin of this "aspect" of her that I grasped yesterday.

Sasamaru: (Nightingale.)

Yesterday, I phrased like this, but this isn't the main point.

Not toward all patients but toward a single one.

This single patient is...
me.

Sasamaru: ...

The truth is, it's not as if something isn't coming to mind.

A long time ago...

Maybe if I think further back in time, I might find out something.

Something related to repaying the favor and making her happy.

Sasamaru: (...That's right.)

I'll ask Harutsuge.
She's older and is also our elder sister.

She might think of a good idea.

There's no point in worrying alone.

Searching for Harutsuge, I head to the living room, but only Araragi is here.

Sasamaru: Araragi. Did you see Harutsuge?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan? She was at the entrance a while ago.

The entrance? Was she about to go out?

Sasamaru: Okay. Thanks.

First, I head to the entrance, but Harutsuge isn't here.

I keep going and exit the dorm, but I still can't see her.

Sasamaru: So, she has already left.

Although, I shouldn't stop her if she was about to go out.
The discussion might get long.

I'll ask Harutsuge later when she has more time.

I return to the dorm once and close the door before heading out for a walk.

Now that I've stepped out of the dorm, I kinda feel like taking a walk.

The truth is, I like taking walks.

Feeling the change of seasons, looking at the townscape, observing the passersby.
It's simply watching, but I earn a lot from this.

I feel this nurtures the heart.

This is what I mean when I say that I like the "Japanese."
The "wabisabi" sensation characteristic of Japanese people nourishes the heart and matures it.

Because I grew without nourishing my heart.
I fell behind considerably, but I have to grow it, even if it's little by little.

Well, I said take a walk, but...
Although this place is distant from the school building, I'm simply walking through the school premises.

Still...

Sasamaru: (What a view.)

It's one of the school's charms that makes me think this.

As far as the eye can see, crowds of red leaves, vividly coloring the season.

These red leaves...
are the red team's project we presented, but they're still on display.

It was the student council's order to "let the winning project stay on display for a while."

I'm somewhat proud.

It's the fruit of everyone's hard work.

As a creator, there's nothing more delightful than leaving the project where everyone in the school can see.

...As an object coloring the morning time, when everyone is going to school.

...As something naturally entering everyone's vision while having a friendly chat in the hallway.

...As something plunging into your eyes when you look aside while in class.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

I take one red leaf with my hand.

On the roadside, it must have fallen from the affixed branch.

Sasamaru: (Its texture...is...)

Its texture is strange.

It feels {\i1}like a real leaf.{\i0}

//text on screen
Kotodama.

Eh?

//text on screen
This land restricts red leaves from attaching.

//text on screen
{\i1}Brought{\i0} red leaves immediately cease from being artificial.

//text on screen
"Red leaves" breathe in this land as "red leaves."

Sasamaru: ...

What was...that?

Harutsuge: ...That's how it is.

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

And while I'm walking, I'm now on a road distant from the dorm, but...

Sasamaru: (Is that voice from Harutsuge?)

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Aone: Ah.

Harutsuge: Oh, Sasamaru-kun.

Surprisingly, Harutsuge is with Aone.

Sasamaru: What a rare combination.

I reflexively look at her back, but I don't see her sister.

Aone: U-umm, well...

Harutsuge: Yeah, a little bit.

Sasamaru: Sure.

Harutsuge says, "a little," then it must be "a little."

Harutsuge: And you, what's up? Going on a trip?

Sasamaru: Ah, no. I was looking for you.

Harutsuge: Me?

Sasamaru: Seems I'm butting in, I'll ask again later. I'm kinda taking a walk while I'm at it.

Harutsuge: Well, we're done here. I was about to return to the dorm.

Sasamaru: Really?

Harutsuge: We're done, right?

Aone: Ah...yes. Thank...you.

Harutsuge: Don't worry about it.

And thus, Harutsuge, Aone, and me. This truly rare combination is walking on the road to the dorms.

The blue team's dorm is past the red team's one.
We use the same road to return.

Harutsuge: And what business do you have with me?

Sasamaru: Ah, well. I was thinking of asking for your advice.

Harutsuge: Got it. Then, let's talk about it at the dorm.

Aone: Ah...sorry. I'll go ahead.

After saying this, Aone tries to leave with a guilty expression.

Sasamaru: Ah, stop that. It's not something others shouldn't hear.

Aone: But...

Sasamaru: We're taking the same road, so, let's go together.

Aone: ...O-okay.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: And? What is it about?

Sasamaru: Well, do you remember we played doctor a long time ago?

Yes, at first we played house, but, for some reason, it became playing doctor halfway.

Harutsuge: Ah, of course I do. It was that child's play where you very pleasantly fiddled with our still-undeveloped bodies, wasn't it?

Sasamaru: How on earth can you so easily backtalk and fake the past?

Aone: Y-you pervert!

Sasamaru: Wait, don't believe her.

Harutsuge: In those days, when he didn't know about sexuality, he purely amused himself by pretending to be doctor and patients. We couldn't see through the "curiosity" of a single boy.

Sasamaru: You're not done?

Aone: W-what a...!

Sasamaru: Wait, listen.

Harutsuge: Our chests that were starting to get big. That boy used the fact we were oblivious as an excuse and just licked and licked.

Aone: T-that's a bit...t-too much...

Sasamaru: Hey, she really believed!? Hey, Harutsuge, Harutsuge!!

Harutsuge: That became a trauma and I started being nervous when touched by a man.

Aone: How horrible! You're horrible! Apologize to her! Now!!

Sasamaru: Hey, Harutsuge. Say the punchline already, or I'll turn into a criminal.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: Uughh! Just by remembering it, the tears...!

Sasamaru: Stop screwing with me, you antenna! Why are you further enlarging it!?

Sasamaru: Look, Aone. You must not believe this antenna.

Aone: S-stay back!

Huh, huh? She's distancing herself?

Aone: I-I-I'll scream, you hear!?

Sasamaru: Wait, listen already.

Aone: Y-you p-p-pervert! Pervert! Pervert!

Harutsuge: Peeervert. Peeervert. Peeervert.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: That was a splendid pervert yell.

Sasamaru: And who shouted it!?

Aone: I-I'm going ahead!

Sasamaru: Ah...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: Hey, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Aah, what a dull situation. Ahahaha.

Sasamaru: And who didn't know when to stop!?

Harutsuge: And? What about playing doctor?

Sasamaru: Forget it.

Harutsuge: Don't be so mad, you pervert.

Sasamaru: Curse you, antenna girl.

Harutsuge: Hey, hey. You're a pervert, but you're our friend, right?

Sasamaru: Stop talking like I'm a pervert. You're not consoling.

Harutsuge: The rumors should be all over the school by now. Give up, you pervert. Start your life anew.

Sasamaru: Fall off, you antenna.

Harutsuge: That's a new curse word. You can even call it original.

Sasamaru: Jeez.

Harutsuge: Ahaha. Well, seems we shouldn't have talked in front of her.

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah...so, that's why?

Harutsuge: Is there another reason?

Sasamaru: ...

I thought you were teasing me.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Ah, well, I don't mind if she listened to it.

Harutsuge: You were with a serious face. I assumed it was a topic hard to talk about at the dorm.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: In addition, you're the type who's too considerate of others around you and can't speak out.

Sasamaru: I underestimated you.

Harutsuge: Don't worry. I had plenty of fun.

Elder sister, please use the carrot and stick in order. I beg you, don't use both at once.

Harutsuge: And what is it?

Sasamaru: ...It's Hiyo.

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Sasamaru: Hiyo is...well, she likes to take care of me. And I wondered if this started when we were playing doctor.

Harutsuge: But why all of a sudden?

Sasamaru: Well, how do I say...I was wondering about it.

Unable to properly convey my feelings, I can only say it like this.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, what do you think? Can you figure something out?

Because Harutsuge is our elder sister.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, I understood that you can't forget the erotic playing doctor from your childhood.

Sasamaru: Hey.

Harutsuge: And I also understood that the victim, Hiyo-kun, is tragically and heroically devoting herself to the man who took her chastity.

Sasamaru: Fine then.

Harutsuge: I'm joking, Joooking. Don't get mad, pervert.

Sasamaru: Curse you.

Harutsuge: I'm already cursed. By the curse called love.

Shit, she just keeps going.
I can't talk her down.

Harutsuge: Hey, I have this idea.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: I think there was some sort of cue.

Sasamaru: ...I knew it.

Harutsuge: But I think it's a bit different from what you're thinking.

Sasamaru: ...Different?

Then, what is it?

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Err, why are you looking so fiercely at me? I have my legal wife Hiyo-kun and my lover Araragi-kun.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Harutsuge: I already said.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I'm making a funny face, but you're not laughing.

Sasamaru: I'm seriously asking.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

A bit confused, Harutsuge groans.

Harutsuge: I want to answer you, but it must not come from my mouth.

Sasamaru: Can't you yield a little?

Harutsuge: Or rather, you should have noticed it already.

Sasamaru: I'm very sorry.

Harutsuge: After playing doctor, a certain girl started taking care of a certain man. Now, a grown-up, she still takes care of this man. Well, can you guess why?

Sasamaru: Hmm.

Harutsuge: This doesn't even amount to a quiz. And now, she simply wants to use this as a reason to help.

Sasamaru: That's difficult.

Harutsuge: Looking at you, worrying with arms crossed, I feel like Hiyo-kun is doing a reckless attempt like challenging a god.

Sasamaru: Uugh.

Harutsuge: Phew.

Harutsuge: But well...I'm surprised. You're conscious that Hiyo-kun is serving you.

Sasamaru: "Serving"? It's not something so exaggerated.

Harutsuge: What is it, then?

Sasamaru: Well, Hiyo has, how do I say...a nurse's mentality? Maybe she's strong in this aspect.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo has always been strong. And after that playing doctor, maybe this tendency got stronger.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: And...well, seems Hiyo likes someone. And perhaps this consideration for me is interfering with her romance.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: But, for this man, this shouldn't be pleasant, right? Usually, you do that to the man you like.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: So...well, maybe you could...help me with this. Maybe I could repay her favor of always helping me.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: About what?

Harutsuge: About calling you a pervert.

Sasamaru: Why that now? That's your usual...

Harutsuge: You're a mere idiot.

Harutsuge: And...on the long-awaited day off, you wasted your time thinking about that.

Sasamaru: "That"!? I'm serious here!

Harutsuge: Your nickname from now on will be "Waster of Time." It's so poetic and beautiful.

Sasamaru: But what can I do? I wanted to think about it now that I have the time.

Harutsuge: If you have time, then ask Hiyo-kun on a date, then. This will be a great way to repay the favor.

Sasamaru: Well, but...

Harutsuge: What?

Sasamaru: I, well, don't know how to spend my day off.

Harutsuge: Just have fun however you want.

Sasamaru: Well, your opinion is very reasonable, but...

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Sasamaru: How do I say...it's so serious that I don't know what to say.

Harutsuge: What is this? Sasamaru-kun, you look like a middle-aged man after a compulsory retirement.

Harutsuge: Living his whole life only for his work until retirement age, and when looking back on life, he realizes he doesn't have a single decent hobby and is now in a daze about this.

Sasamaru: ...

So accurate that I have no words to reply.

Harutsuge: That's called an "old geezer."

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, how do you spend your day off?

Harutsuge: Appropriately.

Appropriately.
Well, that looks normal.

Sasamaru: What do you do to spend an appropriate day off?

Harutsuge: Herein lies the peak of a by-the-book human's nuisance.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Don't worry. You're an old geezer, but your straightforward eyes haven't changed.

Sasamaru: I don't know if you're insulting or supporting me.

Wait, what's straightforward eyes?

Harutsuge: I'm not supporting. Though, I am insulting.

Sasamaru: Aah, I'm kinda relieved that way.

Harutsuge: And, old geezer with straightforward eyes and free time that is you, Sasamaru-kun. How about doing some idle gossip with your free time?

Sasamaru: Is idle gossip something you do because you "want" to?

Harutsuge: I too have something to ask you. May I?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Why so formally now?

Harutsuge places her hands on both my cheeks and makes me face her.

Harutsuge: I knew it, straightforward eyes.

Sasamaru: That's the third time. Is that an introduction to something?

Harutsuge: This is my frank impression of you.

Sasamaru: Hu...huh?

Harutsuge: You're always straightforwardly looking at things. You don't know how to avert your eyes from something you don't want to look at. You're a man who stares at it and dashes ahead. This is the Suu Sasamaru-kun I know.

Sasamaru: You're overestimating me.

Harutsuge: I'm not. You're simply misjudging yourself.

Sasamaru: Eh...hmm?

Harutsuge: You're straightforward in both good and bad ways. So, I'm bothered by where those eyes are going.

I really don't get it.
What does Harutsuge want to say?

Harutsuge: Now, what are those eyes looking at?

Sasamaru: Err...at Harutsuge.

Because my face is fixed.

Harutsuge: Long ago, those eyes were looking at Araragi-kun, weren't they?

Unrelated to the fixation, these words take away my movement.

Sasamaru: W-what are you...

Harutsuge: I just said. You're straightforward in both good and bad ways. Even if the person himself covers it up, it's clear as day to others.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Isn't it?

Harutsuge, a person who knows it all, as if she was always seeing through everything.

Though, she's not the type to nicely wrap things up.

Because Harutsuge is our nice, elder sister.

Harutsuge: You don't have to be shy. It's all in the past.

Sasamaru: ...Well...

Harutsuge: Or maybe...you still like her?

Finally, I'm completely stiff.

There's also the fact that she suddenly asks me this. But it's the first time someone points out that "I liked Araragi."

Harutsuge: I'll say as many times as you want. You're easier to understand than you think. I can tell just by looking at you.

Harutsuge: But you're unthinkably thickheaded. And toward your own feelings too. So, I want to know how you're perceiving all this.

Harutsuge: If possible, from your own mouth.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: As I thought, no self-awareness.

Sasamaru: Eh...I...liked Araragi?

Harutsuge: I don't know why you're asking me about your feelings, but at least this is how I perceived it.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I think I'm not the only one, okay? Anyone notices this after looking at you.

Sasamaru: Eh...Araragi...too?

Harutsuge: Well, she does compare to you in thickheadedness. I wonder if the person herself knows about it.

Sasamaru: O...okay.

Harutsuge: Ah, in short, I approve of it.

Sasamaru: What's this, a leading question!?

{\i1}She set me up.{\i0}

Thinking about it, she might have laid the trap at that "you don't have to be shy, it's all in the past" part.

And since I didn't flatly deny with "no, that's not true at all," she checkmated with "maybe...you still like her?"

Da...damm...!

Sasamaru: Bhraaaaaaaaaah!!

Harutsuge: What's that?

Sasamaru: Well, I thought it's too cliché to use those words like that and tried to give it a twist of "this is so him."

Harutsuge: Very hard to understand.

Sasamaru: So! Now that the punchline is done, I must strive with my studies.

I try to turn around...
and Harutsuge strongly grabs me.

Harutsuge: That's a new retort coming for you, but wait.

Sasamaru: Uugh.

Then, I again face Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: And Sasamaru-kun, you liked Araragi-kun.

It's already a given! It's a complete given!

Harutsuge: Stop jabbing inside your head.

And she's reading my mind!?

Harutsuge: You're just easy to understand.

...

Harutsuge: And don't try to pretend you're not thinking anything.

Sasamaru: And? What is it, senpai?

Harutsuge: Ok. Do you still like Araragi-kun?

Please jab at me. This makes me lonely since I rarely make jokes.
Though, my joke isn't all that funny.

Harutsuge: My specialty is making jokes.

Sasamaru: Is that so.

Harutsuge: And, how about it?

Sasamaru: Is it a serious topic?

Harutsuge: For me, that is.

Sasamaru: Of course. Sorry for making fun.

Harutsuge: It's fine. Could you tell me?

Sasamaru: Hmm.

Sasamaru: Long ago...I liked her, just as you said. But...I was never clearly conscious of "liking." But I was attracted to her.

I'm sure it crossed the sphere of "friend."

If she's saying those feelings were "love," then it must be so.

Harutsuge: And do you still have those feelings?

Sasamaru: I wonder.

After she mentions, and thinking again about it...

Sasamaru: I don't know. But I'm sure that I like her.

I never intended to lie to Harutsuge, but I'm not really sure if the words I'm saying are my true feelings.

Harutsuge: As a friend?

Sasamaru: Of course, I like her as a friend.

This is the best I can answer.

Harutsuge often calls me "thickheaded." I wonder if she means this.

Harutsuge: Got it.

Sasamaru: Sorry for the vague answer when you're asking seriously. Is this unfair?

Harutsuge: Let's see. If I were confessing, and you said it like that to me, it'd be unfair.

Sasamaru: It's not possible. You'd never do that to me.

Harutsuge: Then, why do you think I'm asking this?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Why?
Now that she mentioned it, why is it?

Harutsuge: Of course it's because I want to know where you're looking at.

Sasamaru: Eh, eh?

What is this air?

Harutsuge: ...

H-huh? What is this silence?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Y-yes.

Harutsuge: You...well, do you hate...older women?

Sasamaru: N-no, not at all.

Harutsuge: Okay.

Harutsuge: Then, how about...a childhood friend. Do you hate?

Sasamaru: I...don't hate.

Harutsuge: So, you like them.

Why did it go from 0 to 1?

Harutsuge: Then, someone the same age?

Sasamaru: Eh? Same age?

Harutsuge: Yeah.

I feel like she's been asking about ages for a while now.

But she's with a serious face.
Somehow, she seems more serious than before.

Sasamaru: Well, I think age...is irrelevant.

Harutsuge: Right.

A face like "got it."
What's all this about, anyway?

Harutsuge: So, a same age childhood friend is within your bounds?

Sasamaru: My bounds?

Harutsuge: Is it?

Sasamaru: Well, I think that's not very relevant.

Harutsuge: So, a same age childhood friend is in your strike zone?

Sasamaru: I think you're jumbling things up.

Harutsuge: More fond than eating?

Sasamaru: And what are you hinting at?

Harutsuge: Then, learn to like.

Sasamaru: That's no longer a question nor anything.

Harutsuge: All right, got it. Summing up, your type is a polite, same age, and childhood friend girl who prefers clothes combining the design of a nurse, goth loli, and maid.

Sasamaru: That's not you in the slightest. And what on earth do you want to ask?

Harutsuge: Hmm? Why would it be me? Sasamaru-kun. Did you think I had an interest in you?

Harutsuge: Phew...that's the kind of misunderstanding that bothers others. You should be careful. That's a stalker wannabe.

Sasamaru: Stop toying around with my male heart!!

And...

Our chat takes quite some time, but we finally arrive at the dorm.

Harutsuge: Sorry for the weird questions.

Sasamaru: I don't mind the questions. But apologize about toying with my male heart.

Harutsuge: A virgin talking about male heart. Ridiculous.

Sasamaru: Shut up! What's the problem!? I might be able to use magic someday!

Harutsuge: Got it, my bad. I'm a virgin too, so, we're even.

Sasamaru: Wait, that doesn't even things.

Or rather, stop with such smooth revelations.

Harutsuge: But I won't let you become a wizard. Leave this to me.

Sasamaru: What's that about? You're a virgin, and now you're trying to teach me?

Harutsuge: It's not me.

Sasamaru: Then, what are you planning on doing?

Harutsuge: Heh.

Sasamaru: "Heh"?

Harutsuge: But let me say one thing. Do it after confirming the other party's feelings.

Sasamaru: I just said, what on earth are you talking about?

Harutsuge: Okay? It's our promise.

Sasamaru: Where are you going with this conversation?

Harutsuge tightly grabs my head.

Harutsuge: I believe in you.

Harutsuge: However, if you make her cry, I'll take responsibility and @!*&#!%#@$&@*&%#$%@*#%$@#$* you.

Sasamaru: So, you're gonna do something that you must censor. Or rather, that censoring is too long. The hell you're going to do?

Harutsuge: Popular men sure have it rough, virgin-kun. I mean, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: You mistook that on purpose, didn't you?

What on earth is she doing?

Harutsuge: Well, I believe in you. Though, it might be a pointless concern.

Sasamaru: If you think so, take off your hands from my head. Your fingernails are digging into it.

Harutsuge: Make it stay as a pointless concern, all right?

Harutsuge's hands are sliding to my forehead's temples...

Sasamaru: It hurts, it hurts, it hurts, wait a minute, what's that vise strength about?

//text on screen
Tightly

Harutsuge: What's the answer?

//text on screen
Tightly

Sasamaru: Ouchouchouchouchyesyesyes! I'm not sure but yes!

Harutsuge: Where's your sincerity?

Sasamaru: With sincerity, yes! With sincerity, yes! With sincerity, yes!

Harutsuge: "Harutsuge Hell Tour" number one. "Pressing Hell."

Sasamaru: Ouchouchouchouchouch wait, you're enjoying it!?

Sasamaru: Ouch, ouch...

What was that about?

Sasamaru: But how unusual for you to ask that, Harutsuge.

For example, even if people in the same group of friends like someone...

...Even if you can tell who likes whom, you don't actually speak about it.
I think it's only Harutsuge who speaks like that.

That's why it was a bit unexpected.

Harutsuge: Is that so? I have a keen interest in others' love life, you know?

Sasamaru: Yeah, right.

She doesn't have a keen interest in others' love life. She's just sensitive to others' feelings. I can understand this, but...

...Harutsuge asked that on purpose.

I'm sure she has a good reason.

But...it's different.

I recall the discussion Harutsuge easily won.

Normally, Harutsuge is a girl very, very, very like that, but...
she really watches what must be watched.

And this Harutsuge said all that because I'm misunderstanding something.

Then, why?

Why is Hiyo so...

Sasamaru: Hmmmmmm.

With my arms crossed, I walk through the hallway while pondering.

And when I turn at the corner...

Araragi: Ah.

Araragi: Ouch, ouch...

Sasamaru: Ouch...A-Araragi? Sorry, I spaced out.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan? No, me too, sorry.

Then, I open up to Araragi about my worries.

And then, she...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Araragi: I started having interest in arts because of your words at that time...but there's one more person who influenced me.

Sasamaru: Hmm.

Araragi: The person was this German soldier called Rudel.

Sasamaru: Rudel, you mean Hans-Ulrich Rudel also known as the shooting-down king and the Stuka devil king?

Araragi: He said...

//text on screen
Just to paint is great fun.
Try it if you have not done so.
For there's no good nor bad in painting.

Araragi: ...this.

Sasamaru: Aah, but the one who said that was Churchill. Or rather, you mistook once before, but why is it always a soldier who set world records in casualties? Is it a moe cheater or something?

Araragi: I can't help but feel pity for his partner, Gadermann.

Sasamaru: And? What about Churchill?

Araragi: That person...Pavlichenko said this.

Sasamaru: And while I'm saying it's Churchill, Lyudmila Mikhailovna Pavlichenko was famous as the former Soviet Union's greatest female sniper in history, right?

Araragi: She said this...

Sasamaru: It's actually from Churchill. It's "he."

//text on screen
All the great things are simple,
and many can be expressed in a single word.

Araragi: That's how it is. It's simple.

Araragi: And girls always think love is great.

Sasamaru: Err?

Araragi: You should just simplify things, Sasamaru-chan.

And then, the time to go to bed is here.

When I arrive at the bedroom, Araragi is already sleeping, as usual.

Harutsuge: ...

And Harutsuge is looking at her in confusion.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge. Why that strange face?

Harutsuge: Well...you too, try listening to her.

I strain my ears as I'm told.
Then, I realize Araragi-kun is muttering curious words.

Araragi: ...Hans-Joachim Marseille, Manfred von Richthofen, Eino Ilmari Juutilainen...

Harutsuge: What incantation do you think this is?

Sasamaru: No, this isn't an incantation. She's saying, one after another, names of ace pilots who boasted notorious shooting-down numbers through the world.

Sasamaru: Speaking their aliases in order, it's the "Star of Africa," the "Red Baron," and "Unscathed King."

Harutsuge: No, I'm not asking that. I'm asking why Araragi is muttering that.

Sasamaru: That's what I want to kno...

At this moment, an electric shock runs through my mind.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Hmm? What's wrong, Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, did Araragi always sleep-talk like this?

Harutsuge: When it's not related to the bank president, sometimes. Though, this is the first time I found out its meaning.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: Hey...about Araragi's "middle-aged man" thing.

Araragi: Don't say middle-aged man. Zzz.

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: Hey...about "that" from Araragi.

Harutsuge: Aah, "that." What about it?

Sasamaru: Why does the bank president image she speaks of always get distorted when put into practice?

Harutsuge: My relationship with her is longer than you, but I have no clue about this.

Sasamaru: Maybe you didn't notice "because you were always together"?

Harutsuge: Eh?

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, d-don't tell me...

Yes. I noticed it.

When I first came to school, I was forcing our past relationship onto them, but even I could calmly observe Araragi, who was a bit distant.

Sasamaru: Araragi is...

Harutsuge: A-Araragi-kun is?

Harutsuge gulps.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. They talk about the famous Finland soldier Simo Häyhä, right?

Araragi: The person was this German soldier called Rudel.

Araragi: That person...Pavlichenko said this.

Araragi is all smiles and respects the place's harmony more than anyone.

But at the same time...

Harutsuge: Sa-Sasamaru-kun?

Yes, Araragi is...

Sasamaru: Hmm.

Harutsuge: W-what on earth did you notice?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing. I'm sure it's my imagination.

Yes, I'm sure it's my imagination.

Of course, it's my imagination.

//subchapter
This is how days off should be
November 1 (Sunday)
With You, Here and Now,

The next day.

For the students who were giving their best at the Ayanashisai, today is another long-awaited day off.

This is exactly why the red team's members promise to meet at the water mill they're indebted to.

However...

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan is late.

Even after the three girls have gathered, Sasamaru still hasn't shown up at the water mill.

Hiyo: Maybe something happened to him.

Sasamaru is a man who never ignores a promise made with them, no matter the circumstances.

Due to each one having businesses to take care of, they didn't leave the dormitory together.
So, no one knows if he's still at the dorm.

Harutsuge: No, he's using the opportunity that we're not at the dorm and letting off steam. Let's wait a bit longer.

Hiyo: W-w-what are you talking about!?

Harutsuge: He is actually a man. It's inevitable that things pile up. And he has to get it out.

Araragi: That's our elder sister. No hesitation.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun is so cute, blushing while replying with the usual pace.

Araragi: ...

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: And Hiyo-kun is with a worried expression.

Araragi: It's true.

Harutsuge: Harutsuge Mind Reading. Ha!

Araragi: What?

Harutsuge: Just wanted to say it.

Araragi: And, any effect?

Harutsuge: Hmm...what? "Yes, he is a man. It's inevitable that he piles up."

Harutsuge: "I wonder why I didn't realize something so simple. Not realizing his painful feelings of piling up...I'm disqualified as the one nursing him."

Harutsuge: "It's my duty to take off what he's piling up. Yes, it's my duty!"

Araragi: Hey, hey.

Harutsuge: Tee hee.

Hiyo: H-how can you read my thoughts!?

Araragi: Eh? It's true!?

Harutsuge: You serious!?

Harutsuge: But I often hear hospital rumors about female nurses dealing with male patients' sexual relief.

Araragi: That's an urban legend, right?

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Look, Hiyo-chan is pondering for real about it. Harutsuge-chan, you must take responsibility and persuade her.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: ......Eh?

Harutsuge: Contrary to expectations, you're pondering for real.

Araragi: Hey, hey, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. About the topic just now.

Hiyo: What do I do...

Harutsuge: Eh?

Hiyo: I-I've never done anything like that. And, well...is it something you can do well even if it's your first time?

Harutsuge: Ooh, she's magnificently stuck in the wrong direction.

Araragi: Hi-Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: What a thing. My adorable Hiyo-kun is starting to be sexually conscious.

Araragi: You don't seem to be distressed. You seem to be enjoying this so much.

Harutsuge: That's not true.

Araragi: At least return to your normal face. The insides won't change, though.

Harutsuge: That hit a bit hard.

Hiyo: H-hit hard?

Harutsuge: Aah, Hiyo-kun is already in the phase where she links everything to sex. She's like an excited boy or girl in puberty after discovering an erotic word while flipping the dictionary.

Harutsuge: But, Hiyo-kun. Hitting hard isn't necessary. You just have to rub it to relieve him.

Araragi: Hey, someone stop her.

Hiyo: Rub...

Araragi: Hey, Hiyo-chan, you too?

Harutsuge: Yes, Hiyo-kun. The trick is to take the tip...

Araragi: Don't give her advice!

Harutsuge: It's not advice. I too have never done it. I just have a smattering of knowledge about it.

Araragi: I wonder why she's puffing up with pride.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun, if you're gonna complain, give her some advice.

Araragi: Ah...I too...haven't done it.

Harutsuge: What a virgin domain this is. No one can win if we three join forces.

Araragi: No idea what you said.

Harutsuge: ...In any case, it's Sasamaru-kun's fault for being late.

Araragi: Come to think of it, he's really late. Did something happen?

Harutsuge: I just said, letting off steam.

Araragi: You're going back to that.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Look, Hiyo-chan is pondering about it again!

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun will get a punishment when he arrives.

Araragi: You brought up the topic and now ignore it!?

Harutsuge: How should we punish him?

Araragi: And she's going on.

Harutsuge: First, make him sleep and play some tricks. I'll go check if he's piling up or not.

Araragi: And the topic is back!!

Hiyo: That's no good. To ignore his will is simply indecent.

Araragi: Ah, Hiyo-chan is back.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun normally reacts when there's some harm.

Harutsuge: Then, here's an idea, Hiyo-kun. Do you have any good medicine to make Sasamaru-kun sleep? One that he won't easily wake up.

Hiyo: I believe I joined the conversation as the opposing party.

Harutsuge: Sure. Then, let's administer eye drops. Since time immemorial, eye drops have been necessary goods for men. Saying it's justice to spill a tiny bit into the drink of the girl they want to woo, and...

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Well, as for me, I can't get enough of that cold glance from Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan's writhing is really excellent.

Harutsuge: I say this while being a little shocked at Araragi-kun for accepting me as a pervert. Hiyo-kun, you seem to want to say something.

Hiyo: Yes, eye drops from long ago had an ingredient that accelerates sleepiness, but...

Hiyo: Still, let me see...you must drink a whole bucket of it to finally feel sleepy. And you don't have to use the eye drops. Drinking a bucketful of water also makes you sleepy.

Harutsuge: Thank you for the precise jab. And, Hiyo-kun. How should we make Sasamaru-kun sleep and play tricks on him?

Hiyo: First, I'd be happy if you understood why I'm being sarcastic.

Harutsuge: Now I'm stumped. Even Hiyo-kun doesn't know.

Hiyo: Hello.

Araragi: Well, our ideas are passing by each other.

Harutsuge: All right, I've decided.

Harutsuge stands up straight.

Harutsuge: A strike to the back of the neck. All problems solved now.

Araragi: Really, what is she talking about now?

Hiyo: To make the opponent faint with one strike to the back of the neck only happens in the world of manga. You studied martial arts. You should know this.

Harutsuge: All right, let's go. You'll come with me?

Hiyo: I beg you, listen to me already. Just a little bit.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan, Harutsuge-chan can't back out anymore.

Hiyo: There's something more important than getting carried away, isn't there?

Harutsuge: And...he was really sleeping in the dorm.

Hiyo: Phew...

Araragi: Now we can't use Harutsuge-chan's tactics of striking nor the eye drops.

Hiyo: That's right. Our objective has already been completed.

Araragi: He must be tired. Let him sleep a bit more.

Hiyo: Of course, of course.

Harutsuge: Of course. I'll not make the blunder of waking him up.

Hiyo: Hey, wait. From the conversation's flow, those words sound inappropriate and beyond conceivable.

Harutsuge: Well, should I deal a strike to the eye drops?

Hiyo: I would choose that if it could settle this matter. Although, I'm sorry for the eye drops.

Araragi: Ah, he's really worn out.

Harutsuge: This is all Sasamaru-kun's fault for sleeping like a log and making us wait.

Hiyo: But I'm sure he is tired.

Harutsuge: I know, Hiyo-kun. Let's start again.

Harutsuge: Let's wake him up and have him drink a bucketful of eye drops. Then, strike his neck. All right?

Hiyo: As a major premise, did you forget I stopped that?

Harutsuge: Stop stopping me.

Hiyo: Don't get funny with me.

Harutsuge: Compromise of both parties is essential when opinions collide. It's called meeting halfway.

Harutsuge: I'll give up the strike, so, fetch me a bucketful of eye drops.

Hiyo: I don't get your point.

Harutsuge: All right. I'll give up the eye drops and strike him.

Hiyo: Please realize that, regarding this matter, there's no merit in myself compromising.

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Then, Sasa...

Hiyo: No.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: Which reminds me, the other day, Sasamaru-kun talked about you, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: Eh!

Harutsuge: How was it..."she's now so cute" or something.

Hiyo: W-wa-wait! Please try to remember more accurately, specifically, and minutely!

Harutsuge: Aah, I can almost remember. It's at the tip of my tongue.

Hiyo: Go, do it!

Harutsuge: But these recent problems have occupied my mind. I can't quite remember all of it.

Harutsuge: Ah aah, if only Hiyo-kun would give in.

Hiyo: Urgh.

Harutsuge: He said...I can't take Hiyo-kun out of my mind...maybe she'll like me if I do this or that...or something.

Hiyo: W-w-will you remember if I give in!?

Araragi: Ah, incredible. Hiyo-chan is giving in.

Harutsuge: Just one more push.

Hiyo: Eh?

Harutsuge: No, it's nothing.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan feels closer to an unscrupulous saleswoman than a witch or a demon.

Harutsuge: A jab that hurts my chest. But I will dare, I will dare become a demon for the sake of Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: I just saw an amazing substitution of logic.

//Girls H-scene start

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Poke, poke, poke.

Hiyo: What are you doing after standing up in silence?

Harutsuge: I'm attacking Sasamaru-kun's weak point (near the hip joint) with my foot.

Hiyo: W-who said to give such an indecent explanation?

Harutsuge: Aah, so, you're aware it is indecent. That's a young girl for you.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: A-Araragi-san, say something.

Araragi: Ah, sorry.

Araragi: Well, I thought, "Sasamaru-chan seems to be feeling good."

Hiyo: Eh!?

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: Y-yes...his face is very...

Harutsuge: Ah.

Harutsuge: It kinda got harder.

The two: Whaaaaaaat!?

Harutsuge: Hmm!?

Harutsuge: Pressure increasing from under my sole...oh, it's plump.

Hiyo: W-w-wa-w-wait!

Harutsuge: Good heavens, it's so impressive.

Araragi: W-w-w-w-wh-w-wh-what do we do!?

Harutsuge: We have three choices. One, to admire like this. Two, to admire after lowering his trousers. Three, call someone.

Araragi: All of those are bad!

Harutsuge: Ah, there's a fourth one. To take a picture of his improper state and extort him for the rest of his life.

Hiyo: I won't let that happen! What if he gets scarred for life?

Harutsuge: Tch.

Hiyo: As if nothing happened...yes, do it so it does not scar his mind.

Harutsuge: But...it has become so impressive. It won't return to normal.

Hiyo: I-is that how it is!?

Harutsuge: Probably.

Hiyo: T-then, what do we do?

Harutsuge: ...We have to calm it down.

Hiyo: C-calm it down?

Harutsuge: From what I hear, the only way to restore {\i1}it{\i0} to how it was is to lend a helping hand to the seed wanting to be set free.

Hiyo: T-the s-seed...

Harutsuge: Otherwise, he might commit a sex crime or something.

Hiyo: That must not happen! We must quiet it down!

Araragi: But, well...err, we'll do it?

Harutsuge: To knock down is my specialty, but...

Araragi: I feel that you auto-corrected to a dangerous word.

Harutsuge: But, how do I say...

Harutsuge: ...he really was piling up.

Araragi: I-it's kinda trembling.

Harutsuge: Despite the worried face, your eyes are brimming with curiosity. Fitting for one from the virgin domain.

Araragi: B-but...

Harutsuge: But it really is impressive. Far more than I had imagined.

Harutsuge: So, this...enters...like that. Unbelievable.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: If you want to see it, raise your hand. Go!

Araragi: Errrr, then, I'll take my leave.

Harutsuge: It's no use saying that with a face brimming with curiosity. Be more honest with yourself.

Araragi: Waaaaaaaah.

Harutsuge: ...Wanna see it, dontcha?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan! Your nasal breath! It's rough!

Harutsuge: And thus, it's two against one, Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: She counted me in the 'yes' side!?

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: ...Hiyo-kun?

Hiyo: U-understood.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Hiyo: I will...calm it down.

Harutsuge: Eh.

Hiyo: T-this is my duty.

Harutsuge: No, wait, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: I'm sorry, honey. I didn't notice it all this time.

Hiyo: I was thinking, "if you so wish, anytime is fine." But now I understand. Gentlemen pile up even if they do not wish, correct?

Hiyo: I-I will be useful to him!

Harutsuge: Hey, wait, Hiyo-kun. Calm down a little...

Hiyo: There!

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: ...S-so this is the...

Araragi: ...Amazing. It kinda sprung out.

Harutsuge: What, eh? What, eh!?

Hiyo: S-should I...just rub it a little?

Araragi: Y-y-you really going to do it!?

Hiyo: This is for his sake. I have resolved myself.

Harutsuge: What, eh? What, eh!?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan is the one most surprised.

Hiyo: H...here I go.

Harutsuge: Whoa, whoa, whoa.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan.

Touch, touch.
Touch, touch.

Hiyo: I-is it working?

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun, look at Sasamaru-kun's sloven face. It's working.

Araragi: Ah, Harutsuge-san returned to her usual.

Harutsuge: I can't stay surprised, confused, and embarrassed forever. Now that we're here, let's enjoy it.

Araragi: It's the usual Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Hmm, this must be that. It's called 'phimosis' from what I hear.

Araragi: Peemosis?

Harutsuge: Yes, Peemosis. When a young boy finally...wait, you're completely mistaken if you think I'll jab like this.

Araragi: Good work on the smooth chain of events.

Harutsuge: Yes, phimosis. To men, there is an abysmal difference between pseudo and full phimosis.

Harutsuge: This is an absolute hierarchy. The full has no choice but to kneel before the pseudo. It is said the absolute majority of the pseudo rules over Japan.

Araragi: Just when did Japan become so?

Harutsuge: ...Wait, Hiyo-kun isn't listening to my so-precious joke.

Araragi: It was a joke!?

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: She's in a trance.

Araragi: She has been poking it all this time.

Harutsuge: I said it is working from the course of the events, but merely poking like that must not feel good to the man.

Hiyo: Eh!?

Harutsuge: And why do you only hear me when it's related to Sasamaru-kun?

Araragi: A woman's ears are made not to listen to inconvenient stories.

Harutsuge: I feel you're not using that phrase right...wait, since when did I shift to the jabbing role?

Araragi: Everyone is strangely tense now.

Hiyo: W-what should I do?

Harutsuge: Scrub it, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: S-scrub...

Harutsuge: Yes, it's called tribology in the academic fields. Mechanically, it's frictional force.

Araragi: Everyone is strangely tense for real. They're even changing their personalities.

Harutsuge: I mobilized all of my knowledge. I might be wrong.

Hiyo: Scrub...

Araragi: Aah. Hiyo-chan is...

Harutsuge: Whoa.

Hiyo: L-like...this?

Harutsuge: Whoa, whoa, whoa.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: That's a handjob! A handjob!

Araragi: Don't say it out loud!

Hiyo: I-I wonder if...i-it's working now.

Araragi: Ah...Sasamaru-chan's breath has gotten heavy.

Harutsuge: Maybe...the slaves' release must be close.

Araragi: Slaves' release?

Harutsuge: They are called slaves. They, multiplying, imprisoned, and isolated, are always eagerly waiting for the moment they will be released from the cage.

Araragi: In short, they're...

Harutsuge: Sperm.

Araragi: Whoawhoawhoawhoawhoa.

Sasamaru: Ugh.

Araragi: "Ugh"! Sasamaru-chan just said, "ugh"!

Hiyo: My audience, please keep quiet.

The two: Yes, sorry.

...
...
...

Harutsuge: Scrub, scrub. Scrub, scrub.

Araragi: Hey, wait, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: But I have nothing to do. Except the commentary.

Araragi: But Sasamaru-chan...seems to be feeling good.

Harutsuge: So, the slaves' release might be close.

Araragi: I-is it something so quick?

Harutsuge: According to hearsay, morning release apparently is quick.

Araragi: Gulp.

Harutsuge: Look, somehow...the tip is kinda red.

Araragi: Whoawhoa. It's swelling!?

Harutsuge: It's exploding!

Araragi: Exploding!?

Harutsuge: Yes, exploding!

Araragi: Exploding!

Harutsuge: Exploding!

Araragi: Exploding!

Harutsuge: Ah, it's so fun.

Araragi: Good work!

Harutsuge: Ah.

Harutsuge: Look, Araragi-kun. While we two were striving, Hiyo-kun is going to new heights.

Araragi: And the explosion?

Harutsuge: I guess it can hold on. Annoying Sasamaru beep.

Araragi: Ah...so, the explosion is...

Harutsuge: What did you think it was? Wait, what was that earlier explosion festival for?

Araragi: Ah, I went with the flow.

Harutsuge: I can't make light of you, Araragi-kun. You're still hidden with possibilities...oh.

Hiyo: aah...

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...I think I saw what I shouldn't.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan is so in love.

Harutsuge: Well, it's Sasamaru-kun's {\i1}thing{\i0} after all. For Hiyo-kun, it's the same as a cross.

Araragi: I think you should apologize to a bunch of people.

Hiyo: Mmmnn...honeyy...

Harutsuge: Whoa!

Araragi: Whoawhoawhoawhoa.

Harutsuge: S-s-she's p-putting...

Hiyo: Mnn...mmnnnn...

Hiyo: Mmmnnn...mnnnn...!

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun...has completely forgotten about us.

Araragi: Err, umm, a bit late, but shouldn't we take out leave?

Harutsuge: No, Araragi-kun. As Hiyo-kun's friends, we have to watch over her brave figure. This is an obligation.

Araragi: I wonder how you can declare this without a speckle of persuading or deceiving oneself.

Harutsuge: If I don't watch over, who will tell about her brave figure to future generations?

Araragi: Sure, sure.

Harutsuge: But...it is odd.

Araragi: What is?

Harutsuge: We're talking about Sasamaru-kun's thing that was at its limit. How can it still be standing?

Araragi: Is that...how it is?

Harutsuge: Absurd. Do not make fun of my on-paper knowledge. It was written in my Scriptures; it is at its limits.

Araragi: Ah, Hiyo-chan is...

Hiyo: Aah...

Harutsuge: Don't tell me...!?

Hiyo: Honey...

Harutsuge: Watch out, Hiyo-kun! Get back! That gun is going to explode!!

Hiyo: Eh?

Harutsuge: Ah.

Araragi: Aah!

Hiyo: ah...

Araragi: Aaaah...

Harutsuge: W-whoaaaa! I saw the moment of a facial!

Araragi: H-Ha-Harutsuge-chan, keep your voice down.

Hiyo: aah...

Harutsuge: Whoa, it's drooping! From Hiyo-kun's mouth. From the mouth.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, I said keep it down.

Hiyo: Ah...ah...

Harutsuge: Whoawhoawhoa. She licked it. She licked it.

Araragi: Jeeeeeeeeeeez.

//Girls H-scene end

Harutsuge: ...And we're all satisfied with all this.

Araragi: No, Harutsuge-chan. You're talking like it's all over, but Hiyo-chan is still here. Not even one minute has passed.

Harutsuge: I AM SATISFIED!

Araragi: And, once more, I propose that we run away.

Harutsuge: I want to enjoy this faint drifting smell a bit more. Interesting, so, this is the smell.

Araragi: Jeez, Harutsuge-chan!

Harutsuge: Okay, okay.

(Ugh...)

This feels like waking up.

But the next moment, I feel like I'm being dragged into a dream.

This must be what they call going-back-to-sleep.

The same thing happened before.

But I know it exactly because it has happened before.

This isn't going-back-to-sleep.

I suddenly feel...

...a sensation similar to a déjà vu.

I'm sinking into a hallucination, as if I was melting into it.

(This...again.)

Wait. First, is this a dream?

This is no longer a world painted with ink.

The world is no longer in a gray-brown color. It's now colored.

As usual, my eyes can't focus, but I can confirm even from the blurred vision that there's color.

But why?

Why can't my eyes focus?

This question crosses my mind, but what's really curious...

...is that I feel it's {\i1}not surprising that my eyes aren't focusing.{\i0}

I don't know why, but I'm confident about this.

Ah, there's again a man.

Simply loving his wife.

That "thickheaded" husband.

That enraged husband is now lamenting.

Because the husband knows.

"Maybe the wife is not at fault for the born child not inheriting the family's pain."

"There's no reason to mock the wife as a 'barren woman.'"

The problem lies with himself.

It's by no means the wife's fault.

Although, he hesitates in saying this out loud.

But even so, he tells this in a loud voice.

He cannot bear that his wife is being criticized because of his "defect."

However, the outcome doesn't change.

No one has the courage to stop the flow of events that are already on course.

The impatience that "an heir won't be born."

The household continues because there is an heir.

We can entrust hope to the future because there is an heir.

That's why he can tolerate the resentment from the reality.

Even if this is the pain he wished for, "pain" is "pain."

He's able to endure because there is a future.

Without a future, the resentment only twirls, seeking an outlet somewhere.

A diagram where its spearhead points to the wife.

A structure where this is completed.

Course of events where {\i1}this has already become true.{\i0}

And by throwing the "truth" into this...

...not even a small ripple rises on the water's surface.

The truth becomes the truth after effectively using it.

It doesn't matter if it's true or not.

The truth is not eloquent.

The one who must be eloquent is the truth's spokesman.

If the spokesman mistakes in using the truth without understanding it, the truth will close his mouth, remove his tongue, and he'll be unable to speak.

After all's said and done, he'll be killed by the truth.

So, the wrong one is the "barren" wife.

(Aah.)

"Barren woman."

This isn't "outrageous," it's a natural "common sense."

(Aah aah.)

The husband...

...{\i1}I{\i0} must apologize to my wife.

Backbiting, ridicule, jeers.

All of this is my fault.

There is no place in the house I inherited, nor time to feel at ease.

Also, welcomed by no one.

All of this is my fault.

I try to stop this, but it's no use.

In the case of backbiting, they disperse in all directions.

In the case of sarcasm, it simply decreases to their kids' angry eyes.

Whatever it is, it's temporary.

This is what era means.

A justifiable opinion is squashed by the violence called era.

"A woman who cannot have children is worthless."

This is the common sense that slipped into this era.

They are irrational and abusive words toward my wife.

Also, the abuse called behavior.

I know this is simply slander, nothing more than slander, but...

I know this more than anyone, but...

Still, the era looks down upon the woman.

It doesn't change even when I move.

It doesn't change even when I warn them.

Even when I raise an unfamiliar angry roar...

...not a thing changes.

So, I can only pray.

I can only pray so that I be blessed with a child.

But I was naive.

As everyone who looks at me thinks, I'm simply ignorant of the ways of the world.

That day.

I saw it on that heavy rain day.

Inside the countless raindrops flying from the heavens and hitting the ground as if striking it, I see my wife praying at a shrine while similarly being poured by them.

At this moment, the feeling that wells up inside me isn't "why on such a rainy day?"

I noticed it.

My wife was {\i1}doing this every day.{\i0}

She's dedicating prayers without missing a single day.

Today is a rainy day by chance.

That's why {\i1}she cannot suspend today's prayer just because of a mere torrential rain.{\i0}

Which reminds me, my wife always leaves the house at this hour.

But any proof I derive from this situation is irrelevant.

I despair...

...at myself.

Why didn't I notice this?

How couldn't I realize this?

How much was my wife's suffering?

I'm simply enraged without knowing even this.

And at the same time, I understand.

God is pushing aside even the prayer of that tenderhearted girl.

...Why isn't he blaming me?

Why isn't he backbiting, mocking, and pouring jeers on me?

...Why must my wife go through this and be abused as a "barren woman"?

I don't care.

I don't care what befalls me.

...Why should my tenderhearted wife despair at these suffering days?

Then, take me.

Do you need my soul?

I don't care.

Whatever it is, I don't care.

Take everything you need.

I'll give you everything!!

...Hey, devil.

The blessed child.

My wife was delighted when she heard she was pregnant.

I feel like everything was saved with this.

My wife is smiling.

She's with an everlasting smile.

Then, what else is there to desire?

I don't care anymore.

Take whatever you want.

The arms, the legs, the ears, the eyes.

...Devil to whom I offered my dark prayer.

Take me wherever you want.

But...

There's no visible difference. I'm simply spending my days in acceptance.

One thing that changed is my wife, who was always closed up...

...is now back with her irreplaceable and breathtaking smile.

And also, the blunt change in the surroundings' reaction.

This change of attitude makes me disgusted, but my wife is delighted.

"I'm finally able to be useful."

Despite lowering her head with "I'm very sorry for making you worry all this time," she's with an everlasting smile.

Then, it's fine.

If the environment surrounding her has changed...if she can keep smiling in it, I don't care about my anger.

Then, devil.

It's now.

Now, devour myself along with my anger.

I appreciate that you granted me time.

...But, despite the birth of my child, nothing was taken from me.

Nothing is missing.

I'm holding my baby as if relishing the happiness of being born into this world.

Is this all right?

Is this allowed?

I offered a prayer to the devil and was blessed with this child, you know?

Days of doubt pass by.

But it's my, now warmer, every day.

Honestly, the peaceful days with my wife and child are about to erase these misgivings.

Perhaps I'll be able to fulfill my life as a husband, as a father.

And on a certain day after I started having this sweet dream...

I made a terrible mistake.

I forgot I'm just an ordinary man.

What an excessive self-consciousness.

Why didn't I realize that I, someone without any talent, have no desirable value?

...What the devil desired wasn't me.

...Aah.

Aah.

I get it, {\i1}so, that's how it is.{\i0}

I wasn't desired. I was stolen.

The price for offering the prayer is here.

What was stolen from me was...

"To exist as a parent."

I feel as if a dark hole had opened at my feet.

I'm falling upside-down.

But I don't feel that I'm falling. I doubt if I'm not simply trapped in a dark room.

My right, left and behind, all painted over with darkness.

Even my front, where I'm holding the baby...

Aah...aAah...aaAAaaAhhH

Even the scream slowly rising from deep within my throat is soundless.

But...

Even if I can't see because of the dark, even if it's a darkness invisible to the eye, I won't let go of this hand.

I clearly feel a weight on my arms.

The small but certain weight of a baby.

This child is certainly here!!

My child hidden by the darkness.

You are my child.

I won't deny it.

Like hell I'll deny it.

I have my responsibility.

Your life was, without a shadow of doubt, granted from the prayer that I offered.

I'll accept it with all my remaining life.

You are my child!!

You are my treasure, born from the love between my wife and me.

My only and one irreplaceable child.

Even if there is an otherworldly intervention here...

...it was I who called forth this child.

So, the child bears no sin.

It was I who offered a prayer to the devil.

So, my wife bears no sin.

The only sinner is myself.

Do not ever mistake this.

I am the only wrong one.

All right, God?

Do not ever mistake with whom the sin lies.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Hiyo: I-is...something wrong?

Sasamaru: Hmm? Ah......ah! Sorry, was I sleeping!?

In panic, I look at the clock.

Sasamaru: Wait, it's this late already!? I'm sorry! I'm very sorry!

Hiyo: Ah...no, everyone has already returned to the dorm.

Sasamaru: Eh.

I'm the worst.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry.

I stand on my knees and lower my head.

Hiyo: D-don't mind it. No one was bothered.

Sasamaru: But...

Hiyo: Harutsuge said, "I got lucky for seeing something interesting."

Sasamaru: ...Something interesting?

Hiyo: Ah, i-it's nothing.

I don't quite get it, but I guess everyone was considerate of me.

Now I'm at a loss. I must make up for this.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: Were you...having a dream?

Hiyo asks me something odd.

Sasamaru: Hmm, aah...it was a dream.

A very strange...and also distorted one.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...? What is it?

Hiyo: No...well, somehow...honey, you seemed very happy, so...

Sasamaru: ...Happy?

Was I grinning in my sleep?

...Yes, that is kinda creepy.

Hiyo: Well...umm, the way you smiled was...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo?

Hiyo: N-no. It's nothing. I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: ...

I was smiling?

//text on screen
Then, devil.

//text on screen
Devour myself along with my anger.

Perhaps I...

...was with {\i1}the same expression as that distorted smile?{\i0}

Evening, after everything has settled.

After entering the living room, Araragi sees...

...Harutsuge, with arms crossed and pondering.

Harutsuge: Hmm...

Araragi: Ah, sorry. Were you in deep thought?

Harutsuge: No, I was just thinking.

Araragi: Yeah.

Harutsuge: "Inside the virgin domain, maybe the one with most superficial knowledge about sex is actually Araragi-kun." I noticed this after the turmoil a while back.

Araragi: And here I was thinking, "why the serious face"!!

Harutsuge: Nice one, Araragi-kun. You're an all-purpose type who can both joke and jab.

Araragi: No idea why you're admiring this point.

Harutsuge: But don't you think so too?

Araragi: W-well...

Araragi: Conversely...how do I say, maybe you're being taken away by mistaken knowledge.

Harutsuge: Wow, talk about arrogant.

Araragi: That's not what I meant!

Harutsuge: May I call you "Pope," the highest position in the virgin domain's hierarchy?

Araragi: I...well, I come from a large family...with many brothers, so...

Harutsuge: So?

Araragi: When I was little, we entered the bathroom together and...well, had many chances to see...

Harutsuge: That's not a good reason. In childhood, everyone's {\i1}thing{\i0} is the same.

Araragi: T-they were of different ages! One brother was already a working adult, another was a college student...another was younger than me...

Harutsuge: Of course. Your Holiness the Pope is in the master class, experienced with a diversity of sizes.

Araragi: How can I ask for your forgiveness?

Harutsuge: Recognize it, Your Holiness. "My being stands on the top." Please guide us.

Araragi: Why is this person so lively when it comes to {\i1}these{\i0} topics?

Harutsuge: To begin with, entering the bathroom together doesn't equal sexual knowledge. Unless there are other factors.

Araragi: Uugh...

Harutsuge: Stare.

Araragi: I mean...well, I had many brothers.

Harutsuge: I heard that. Or rather, you don't have to tell me. We're childhood friends, all right?

Araragi: Many...brothers, okay.

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Araragi: Well...I often...see it. By accident.

Harutsuge: See?

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: Ah! Ona...

At this moment, Harutsuge's mouth is blocked by Araragi's palm.

Araragi: Shhh! Shhh!

Harutsuge: Mghf. Ntmp.

Araragi: Ah, sorry.

Harutsuge: Phew.

Araragi: I'm sorry.

Harutsuge: And? What about onanism?

Araragi: You wasted my block!!

Harutsuge: Who'd have thought you could move faster than my eyes could follow. Maybe the Four Noble Ones' fastest is actually Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, you were defenseless because you wanted me to touch you.

Harutsuge: I feel you casually hit the bull's eye...but that's not true. Until now, the party was a fighter, a fighter, and a monk. But we need to think of a new possibility.

Araragi: Err...the first two ones are Sasamaru-chan and Harutsuge-chan?

Harutsuge: Yes.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, I feel you're a "king."

Harutsuge: Is that a profession? Well, maybe it is, with extreme logic. I'll go with that, then.

Araragi: And the monk is Hiyo-chan?

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun did learn self-defense along with the Kumigami household education policy, after all. She's that, plus a nurse.

Araragi: Can that be a "fighting nurse"?

Harutsuge: Agh! Apologize to the game mind.

Araragi: Hmmm...and I was the one still undecided.

Harutsuge: Yes. But now I finally concluded.

Araragi: What, what?

Harutsuge: "Pope."

Araragi: That has nothing to do with speed. And you're not following the conversation.

Harutsuge: You're making a huge mistake if you think everything will be applied, Araragi-kun. There are hidden parameters that don't affect gameplay at all.

Araragi: Isn't that a design mistake?

Harutsuge: And there are games where you quickly learn the antidote spell, but there are no enemies who poison until you clear it.

Harutsuge: Also, there are items that enchant the attack element with fire or water, but there are no enemies with such elements.

Araragi: Shhh! Shhh!

Harutsuge: And that's how you're the pope, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: I don't know if that's a profession or not...and I don't feel that Sasamaru-chan is a fighter.

Harutsuge: Then, what?

Araragi: A "hero."

Harutsuge: Wooow. Ptui.

Araragi: Why, why? It fits more than a fighter.

Harutsuge: I'll say it, then. Hiyo-kun is a witch. Moreover, a great witch, excelling in healing.

Araragi: And after sorting all this out...

Harutsuge: A party with a hero, a king, a great witch and a pope.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: I'm the one who said it, but...

Harutsuge: Yeah, a party that can easily destroy half of the world.

Harutsuge: Hey, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Ah, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: What are you doing here?

Sasamaru: Ah, I overslept today, so...

Harutsuge: And you're spending your day off by endlessly sweeping and cleaning the garden. Very admirable.

Sasamaru: Haha...well, I did break my promise to everyone.

Harutsuge: Don't worry. Thanks to that, I saw something good.

Sasamaru: Something good?

Harutsuge: No, it's nothing.

Sasamaru: Ah...which reminds me, I saw Jin Reiji when I was cleaning near the gate.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Sasamaru: We were in deep talk for a bit. And it seems he's grateful to you, Harutsuge.

He didn't plainly say it, but I could feel this from his words.

Harutsuge: I did nothing worthy of being thanked for, okay?

Sasamaru: Well...Harutsuge, you might say that, but...

Harutsuge: No, I really did nothing. The one who stopped that issue between the white team and him was Araragi-kun. I simply was with her.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: What's that face?

Sasamaru: Ah, well...

"It was nothing."
I have no words to say to Harutsuge, who's with such a face.

Sasamaru: I was thinking...for you, that might have been something natural.

Harutsuge: What are you talking about?

Sasamaru: About helping someone like that.

Harutsuge: Huh?

Sasamaru: Long ago, you helped someone the same way, didn't you? No matter where you went, you were always the boss. You helped everyone there and not just those around you.

The strongest existence called Kashi Harutsuge.
She's still the same girl who helped Hiyo at that time.

Harutsuge: ...Don't be stupid.

Harutsuge makes an awkward smile. To me, this appears like she's hiding her embarrassment.

Well, I think "everyone" is a bit too much, but I don't think I exaggerated.

Our elder sister is always right, helping everyone within her hand's reach.

Harutsuge: I'm just mimicking.

Sasamaru: Mimicking?

Harutsuge: Yeah. A person everyone thinks, "they're amazing." In short, my aspiration.

Sasamaru: Wow...

How unexpected.
It'd be rude if I said this.

But Harutsuge is my aspiration. I'd never have imagined that this Harutsuge also had someone as an aspiration.

Harutsuge: Long ago, I abandoned a certain individual.

Harutsuge: I knew they were having a hard time, and I did nothing. I didn't want to get involved in trouble.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: It's simple. This individual had been bullied. And the one who bullied was the kid of the school's chairman.

Harutsuge: Few knew that it was the chairman's kid...but I knew.

Harutsuge: I was full of myself. Everyone lifted me up for some reason. I did nothing, but they opened the way for me. They misunderstood me.

Harutsuge: That's why I was scared. Scared of disobeying the chairman's kid and losing my position. Thinking that I might become the next target...and did nothing.

Harutsuge: I'm the worst.

Sasamaru: Don't say worst.

Harutsuge: Eh?

I didn't know that.
I thought Harutsuge was a strong person who opposed those sisters. I even thought she was stronger than them.

But...

Sasamaru: Even so, you saved me, right? You were always looking after us, right? For us, you're our proud sister. So, don't say worst.

Harutsuge: It's the opposite. The opposite.

Sasamaru: The opposite?

Harutsuge: It was I who was saved.

Sasamaru: By being together with everyone?

Without understanding her meaning, I ask like this.

Harutsuge: Of course, there's that too. But the one who granted me a chance...was you.

Sasamaru: Huh?

What is she saying? I saved Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: "Your actions are truly splendid."

Sasamaru: Eh.

Harutsuge: "I felt ashamed after looking at you."

Harutsuge: Your actions are truly splendid!

Harutsuge: I felt ashamed after looking at you. You're admirable!

Ah...

Sasamaru: You...mean that...

Harutsuge: I apologized to Hiyo-kun. I revealed everything and earnestly apologized. And then, she...

Hiyo: Thanks!

Harutsuge: Eh..."thanks"?

Hiyo: You said that because we're friends, right?

Harutsuge: Ah...yeah. I want to become real friends with you.

Hiyo: Yup. So, thanks!

Harutsuge: ...said that. I was ashamed and apologized in order to expose this embarrassment, but I ended up even more embarrassed.

Interesting.
Perhaps Harutsuge has always been weak to Hiyo because of...

Sasamaru: Hiyo might be so, but not me. I didn't help while trying to save Hiyo. I...

Harutsuge: It doesn't matter.

Harutsuge flatly says this.

Harutsuge: Regardless of the intention, it's thanks to you that Hiyo-kun was saved from the bullying. You gave one step forward...I couldn't do it.

Sasamaru: But I...

Harutsuge: It might have been different at the start. But you compensated for it.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: All alone, you stood in front of those sisters...and splendidly made them stop the bullying.

Sasamaru: How do you...know...

Harutsuge: You must not underestimate the boss. If there's even one eyewitness, it'll naturally reach the boss' ears.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I thought I'd be able to protect her if I was beside her. But I couldn't stop it. They kept bullying her where my eyes didn't reach.

Harutsuge: It was you who stopped them, Sasamaru-kun. So, you're my aspiration.

Sasamaru: Wh...what are you talking about? For me, the aspiration is you.

Harutsuge: I'm your aspiration?

Harutsuge is with a blank expression.

And the next moment...

Harutsuge: Ahahahaha! Hahahahaha!

With a loud voice, she bursts into laughter.

Sasamaru: W-what now?

Harutsuge: Ah, sorry, sorry. It was so unexpected.

Sasamaru: Unexpected, right.

Harutsuge: Yes, it is. Small, very small. Suu Sasamaru isn't a small-minded person who aspires to be me. Stop aspiring to someone smaller than you.

Sasamaru: You're smaller than me? Now that's where I should laugh.

Harutsuge: Oh, come on. The only part of me that's bigger than yours are my breasts.

Sasamaru: Well, I'd be annoyed if mine were bigger.

//subchapter
Discomfort
November 4 (Wednesday)
With You, Here and Now,

Someone said this.
"I'm in a bad shape recently."

Someone else said this.
"The ones around seem strange."

This seems like...

Hiyo: Seems a strange rumor is circulating.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

There is a rumor flying about the school.

Its contents are very curious.

Many people complaining about being in bad shape must be because of going all-out with the school festival. And there's also the changing of seasons that we talked about.

In fact, Onitake-sensei collapsed from a cold.

So, everyone concluded it's "something seasonal" and didn't pay it much attention, but...

Sasamaru: But, what about "the ones around seem strange"?

Becoming a rumor means several people are talking about it.

Specially at this school, where the total number of students isn't that large.

Although, this means that almost the whole school will talk about it, even if a specific person doesn't spread the rumor.

Which means that I'm included in the "ones around."

It's not just the person himself who feels "strange." The ones around also say the same thing toward this person.

Hiyo: It seems they're feeling a "discomfort."

Sasamaru: A discomfort?

Someone spoke this word.

I feel that Hiyo wants to point out the roundabout expression of "sensing a discomfort."
But this isn't the heart of the matter.

Hiyo: Yes. They say...that's not like her, or him. We're living in groups, so, we have each of our respective communities. But each one is feeling like this.

Sasamaru: That sure is a strange story.

The story of the rumor of "what's so strange?"

Because this is simply a dialogue among friends: "Hey, aren't you kinda strange recently?"

If its source were a problem, they'd solve it by themselves. Even if this became a rumor, it would be "he's acting strange" or "she's worrying about this."

Would it become a rumor such as "the ones around seem strange"?

And while probing into this...

Sasamaru: I wonder if we too...are strange.

Hiyo: That's what it would mean.

Sasamaru: Am I strange somewhere?

Hiyo: No. Honey, you're always...

Harutsuge: ...Always strange. Because you don't notice my feelings. You're past the realm of thickheaded, beyond the title of king, and can be called a god.

And, as if sensing her chance, Harutsuge appears.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: Aah, this is good. Those eyes and the strangely low voice feel so good. And to be able to criticize Sasamaru-kun on top of it is two pleasures with one stone.

Araragi: What a complicated fetish.

And Araragi appears too.

Harutsuge: And, you two. What was that?

Hiyo: Weren't you listening?

Sasamaru: She entered too naturally for someone who wasn't listening.

Harutsuge: What, you don't know? Listen, you can naturally join a conversation if you appear with an "I know that" face.

Hiyo: I don't understand why you're acting proud about that.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan. Harutsuge-chan is unshackled. But she stands to reason. What a mysterious {\i1}animal{\i0}.

Harutsuge: Aah, you're making me feel embarrassed.

This doesn't matter, but it has become a completely different topic.

Nice one, Harutsuge, our elder sister.

And thus, everyone is present. But they're with their winter clothes since Monday.

Of course, plain clothes are allowed, but they're not "enforced."

Hiyo wore winter clothes until Monday, the day for the winter clothes, but she returned to plain clothes for some reason.

I waited for a good opportunity and asked her the reason, but...

Hiyo: For me, {\i1}these clothes are the uniform.{\i0}

...she replied like this.

I wonder if she's really fixated on "nursing."
Yes, this feels more like "Hiyo" because I'm used to seeing her like this.

Sasamaru: But you wore the school's winter clothes on Monday, right?

Hiyo: That's...well, Harutsuge-san urged several times.

I get it. So, it was a treat for Harutsuge.

Araragi: And what were you talking about?

Sasamaru: Yeah. There has been a strange rumor recently.

Harutsuge: We too heard about that rumor.

Araragi: Yes, we often hear about it recently.

I knew it. The rumor has permeated so much that everyone knows it.

Sasamaru: But thinking logically, we're also included in that rumor.

Harutsuge: So it seems.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, am I strange to you?

Harutsuge: With the meaning of aberrant thickheadedness, no doubt you're abnormally strange.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: Aah...I can't get enough. I should have brought spare underwear.

Araragi: I wonder how far Harutsuge-chan is going with this.

Harutsuge: But...a discomfort, discomfort...huh.

After crossing her arms while in deep thought, Harutsuge...
abruptly says this.

Harutsuge: There's the way of thinking of "a rumor is a curse, and a curse is a rumor."

Sasamaru: What's that?

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Huh? Aren't you going to explain it?

Harutsuge: I only know that there's this way of thinking.

Sasamaru: Is that so.

Harutsuge: Now it's the time for that. To ask a specialist. Well, now is the time for Hiyo-kun's entrance.

Hiyo: Why am I the "specialist"?

Harutsuge: Because "for me, you're the leading person regarding witch-y-ness."

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Ah, how unusual. Hiyo-chan is with an annoyed face.

Harutsuge: This stabs my heart a bit.

Harutsuge: But I dare to turn serious and state this! Hiyo-kun is a witch! -ish!

Hiyo: Err...there's the way of thinking "a rumor is a curse, and a curse is a rumor."

Araragi: Ah, she's explaining.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun. Lend me your chest. I wanna cry.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan always touches in weird places. What do I do?

Hiyo: The "curse" concept where you pray for another's death. This is often associated with paranormal powers, but there's actually an interpretation consisting of an explainable mechanism.

Sasamaru: A mechanism?

Hiyo: Yes. A person who "despises" someone, or "hates" someone. How will this person act at this time?

Sasamaru: Well...verbally abusing, clearly avoiding the person...and in an extreme case, stabbing the person.

Hiyo: Yes. There are cases of directly acting like that.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Hiyo: That's where the "rumor" comes.

Sasamaru: The rumor?

Hiyo: Yes. Not to directly hurt the other, but to spread rumors that belittle the other.

Hiyo: "I hate that person." People obsessed with this only see the bad points of their subject. Also, any action is taken in a bad way. As a result, he talks badly about him to anyone he sees.

Sasamaru: Makes sense.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun is a man indifferent to that blunt malice. He can't quite imagine it.

Araragi: She's complimenting you, Sasamaru-chan.

Harutsuge: I'm not complimenting. I just said that he's a simple idiot.

Hiyo: May I continue?

Harutsuge: Yes, I'm sorry. Go ahead.

Hiyo: Also, there are people who "are easily influenced" and also "people who believe without checking the truth." People who compare their every day with a story and think, "now that you mention."

Hiyo: In fact, the ones who spread the "rumors" are these people. A rumor spreads not from the originator himself but from the nature of the people who receive this "rumor."

Hiyo: And thus, the "rumor" propagates. Transmitted due to "malice" and propagated due to "impression," "ignorance," and above all else, "interest."

Hiyo: This eventually arrives at the person from this rumor. What feelings will they harbor?

Sasamaru: Well...it's not something pretty.

Hiyo: Yes. They might not feel very well at first. With the repeated accumulation of this, however, they'll worry so much that they can no longer ignore it.

Hiyo: Excess anxiety also affects the body. And the vicious cycle of the body's bad condition affecting the mind. Suspicion will raise bogies, and the enlarged anxiety will eventually destroy the person.

Hiyo: This itself is the "curse." The diagram of "a rumor is a curse, and a curse is a rumor" is finished, and the curse is completed.

Harutsuge: Look, look. You can connect the "discomfort" with the "rumor" like this, right? This is what I wanted to say.

Araragi: Yup, yup. Amazing. Amazing. Hiyo-chan, that is.

Harutsuge: Certainly! Hiyo-kun is amazing!

Araragi: Ah, so, that's your reply.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, so, you're saying someone is intentionally spreading this rumor?

Harutsuge: No, I didn't say that.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: But if that's not the case, we can infer that it was exaggerated somewhere. Yes, there might have been a starting "transmitter," but there might not have been malice.

Harutsuge: While it was spreading, people might have linked this discomfort with something in their everyday lives with "now that you mention."

Of course. So, that's what she wanted to say.
Wait, you're purposefully saying, "I feel a discomfort."

Sasamaru: (A discomfort...huh.)

After running into this "discomfort" word, I recall the other day's events.

Araragi: H-how can you say that?

Araragi: The teacher did all that for us!

Harutsuge: An idiot is an idiot. There's no other word for her.

Harutsuge: Also, "I have no right to join." Just say you don't want to participate in our meager celebration.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan!

Yes. Thinking like this, the rumor is...

Harutsuge: I too am feeling a discomfort. I can't help but feel this sentiment for Hiyo-kun expanding day by day, more than 2 days ago, and more than yesterday.

Perhaps due to liking that phrase, Harutsuge says that on purpose again.
I mean, why is she forcefully making a joke?

Araragi: Do you call that a discomfort?

Harutsuge: Hmm? Did you say consensual sex?

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san. There's a bucket inside that locker. Could you immediately fill it with water and stand in the hallway? For all eternity, if possible.

A rumor that calls something to mind.

But looking at their usual behavior, this thought is blown away.

Sasamaru: (It's overthinking.)

This must be what Harutsuge said.

You can link a "discomfort" to anything in your everyday life.

I don't know what started that rumor, but how one perceives it can change depending on the situation at the time.

Even your unconscious impatience can irritate the other party.

For example, an accumulation of this could be in the rumor that someone spoke, and...

As Hiyo said, "people easily influenced" can think, "now that you mention," and make the rumor spread like a curse.

Sasamaru: (Before one realizes, one has become a "person easily influenced.")

You can explain if you think like this. Or maybe not. It's just a rumor.

Sasamaru: Still, I wonder if the teacher...will be absent today too.

Even after a while after the chime has rung, Onitake-sensei hasn't shown up at the classroom.

Today is Wednesday already.
"On Monday, I can see the usual teacher with her casual face."
I was hoping for this, but, in the end, the teacher is still absent midweek.

Eventually, a substitute teacher comes to announce it's "self-study" and thus, the teacher is absent today.

Araragi: I wonder if the teacher is all right.

And here's our concern.

Harutsuge: You only realize the value once you lose it.

Sasamaru: It seems like a good saying when you take it at face value, but, coming from you, I can only see an ominous nuance.

Harutsuge: I wonder why humans only notice after losing it.

Well, leaving Harutsuge aside...

Sasamaru: How about paying her a visit?

Hiyo: Oh my, that's great. Nice idea, honey.

Harutsuge: A visit...hydrangea, camellia, cyclamen...well, which one should we bring her?

That's our Harutsuge. Those are all flowers that are taboo when visiting a sick person.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: I'm very sorry.

Hiyo: We mustn't forget to bring a potted plant.

Harutsuge: Very good, Hiyo-kun. Let's get married right now.

...Oh boy.
Well, such a joke is proof that the teacher is cherished.

Sasamaru: (We're all worried after she has been absent this much.)

Jokes aside, we should pay her a visit.

Sasamaru: The teacher lives in the staff dormitory, right?

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: Then, after the class ends...

Araragi: About that. They said no visitors are allowed.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: In the morning, I thought of paying her a visit and went to the staff room. I asked if I could go visit her if she was absent today too, but...

Nice one, Araragi. Already preparing for the visit.

Sasamaru: They said no?

Araragi: Yeah. They said the teacher is now at the second school infirmary.

Sasamaru: The second school infirmary?

This school has two infirmaries.
One is the one we went to the other day.

And the other one...

Sasamaru: The second infirmary is the emergency hospital, isn't it?

Yes, it's called by the nickname of "second school infirmary," but it's a hospital facility.

This is a school with a boarding system deep in the mountains.

In an ordinary school, when there's an illness that can't be solved with infirmary medication or just by resting a little...
the person leaves early and goes to a hospital.

This school's boarding system also includes the teachers. And there's also this 'deep in the mountains' location.

Meaning that an emergency patient is problematic.

In the case of a patient who must be hospitalized immediately, they can simply carry him to the hospital at the base of the mountain, but there may be cases where someone can neither go nor come due to the bad weather.

In these cases, a place for the patient to rest until the weather clears is necessary.

And this is the second school infirmary.

Also, when a person doesn't need to go to the hospital at the base of the mountain but also cannot attend classes...

...the preferable option is for the dormitory students to cooperate and nurse this person as much as possible, but...

...thinking about this school's number of yearly applicants, it's common for the only student for that year to be the patient themselves.

Even so, the students are amateurs. There are cases where there's nothing they can do.

In these cases, the second school infirmary is used.

Although simple, I hear it's installed with common medical institution's equipment.

In order to respond even to nighttime emergency patients, the one in charge is ready to show up at all times if you press the buzzer in front of the second infirmary.

Harutsuge: ...Is she that bad?

Conversely speaking, she's in a shape where such a facility must be used.

Everyone is anxious about this.

"Must she really be in the second infirmary?"

Araragi: Hmmm...I wonder. The teachers were ambiguous, and I couldn't get any information.

Sasamaru: ...

They can't talk. So...
that's what it means.

Having seen the teachers' reactions, Araragi's expression is telling this.

In case the students want to visit a teacher, the other teachers might warn with "don't cause trouble." But normally, I think they'd be happy to show the way.
Though, this might be prejudice.

But the fact we can't visit means that...it's very serious, unless the Yumemidori Academy's teachers are inflexible.

Sasamaru: (I'm starting to get worried, for real.)

Despite everything, our "teacher" is really her.
I again feel this way.

After class.

Unable to stand still, we finally come here, but...

Hiyo: Honey, what should we do?

What should we do?

Since the second infirmary is basically a facility handling patients "more severe than the infirmary," we need permission to enter.

The teachers being ambiguous means her condition is severe. We'll just be a nuisance if we visit her.

But when I think about the teacher suffering beyond these doors, I wonder if there's something we can do.

Sasamaru: Ah.

I can see the teachers walking toward us from further in the hallway.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, let's hide.

Hiyo: Ah.

In a hurry, we hide ourselves.

If we're found and trouble the teacher suffering from the illness, we won't be able to see her.

Waiting for them to pass, we are hiding ourselves.

Kumatake-sensei: Ah, Igase-sensei. How was it?

Looks like one more person came from the opposite side, and they're chatting in front of the second infirmary.

Now we can't leave, even if we want to.

Kumatake-sensei: I understand. Things have become very serious.

Sasamaru: (Eh.)

Very...serious?

Sasamaru: (Is it Onitake-sensei?)

For one moment, a bad feeling runs through me.
Is the teacher's condition more serious than we thought?

Kumatake-sensei: The phone also isn't working.

The phone?
I tilt my head at the abrupt word.

I can't hear the rest of the conversation, but they can't get in touch with the hospital?

Sasamaru: (But there should be other hospitals, right!?)

After realizing that the teacher's condition is severe, I lose my composure a little.

Igase-sensei: Yes. I confirmed it too. All the phones are out of order.

Hmm? It's not that?
The hospital is fine, and it's us who can't get in touch?

Sasamaru: (But you can just...)

Sasamaru: Hiyo. Do you have a cellphone?

Hiyo: I do, but there's no signal on this mountain. I'm not carrying it because I can't use it.

Right. I didn't know that because she's never with it.

Igase-sensei: I guess the phone line got cut somewhere.

The phone line got cut?
Summing up, this school cannot get in contact with the outside through the phone?

But it isn't raining nor is a storm coming. There are other means to carry her.

You don't have to call. You can directly carry...

Kumatake-sensei: The cause is that...incident?

Incident?

For one moment, I doubt my ears after listening to this abrupt word.

Igase-sensei: Most certainly. Who'd have thought the bridge would collapse.

Huh?

Sasamaru: (Bridge...is it the bridge leading to the school?)

This is the only one that comes to mind.
The suspending bridge that I took when I first came to this school.

Although it's a suspension bridge, it's quite a sturdy one. All the supplies such as food are brought to this school through it.

It's a bridge that must always be crossed to travel to and from this school.

Sasamaru: (It collapsed? Did they just say that the bridge collapsed?)

Hiyo: H-honey. Honey.

Hiyo raises a low but nervous voice and pulls my sleeve.

Sasamaru: What's up?

Hiyo: O...over there.

Ah, that's right.
We can see it from here.

I didn't notice because the second infirmary isn't a place we visit often.

The only bridge leading to the Yumemidori Academy is in a position you normally can't see from the dorms nor from the school.

The geography, the trees' position, and the altitude difference are the problem. But we can see it from here.

Sasamaru: No...way.

But I doubt my eyes at this scenery.

What appears as if weaving its way through the trees' gaps is almost a picture.

It makes me think this is because it feels artificial.
Humans normally feel this when they see something "unbelievable."

"An unbelievably beautiful scenery."
"An unbelievable technique."
"A being that shouldn't exist."

And also...

"An unbelievable disaster."

Igase-sensei: We'll now hold an emergency staff meeting and discuss a countermeasure. Teacher, let's go.

I return to my senses after her voice.

The...countermeasure.

If no one can leave this school, then no one can come.

I'm all the more worried about the teacher's condition.

At first, they said it was just a cold, but that was the teachers' consideration as to not make us worry.

Sasamaru: (Onitake-sensei.)

What do we do?
We can't do anything if we keep ourselves hidden.

Unable to go to the hospital, the teacher is suffering beyond that door.

After I bite my lips in frustration, Hiyo pulls my clothes' sleeve.

After turning over, Hiyo's expression is reflected into my eyes.

She quickly nods.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo!)

//choice
Check it out right now.
Sneak in at night.

//1st choice

Nothing will be solved if I go.

I know this.
But I can't stand still.

Sasamaru: Let's go!!

Hiyo: Yes!!

I jump out of the cover and head toward the second infirmary's entrance.

Sasamaru: (Nngh!)

It's...locked.

For convenience, this room's door is not a sliding screen, but a wooden sliding door.

Kumatake-sensei: Hey! What are you doing!?

Oh, no, they notice us.
I thought those two teachers had left, but they notice us when we try to enter the room.

Igase-sensei: Hey, wait!

What do I do?

What do I do!?

Sasamaru: Ngh!

Without time to think, I kick down the door and break into the room.

Sasamaru: (Where is she!?)

Teacher, sorry for the ruckus.
If there are others using this room, I'm sorry too.

Just one look.
Show me your usual face just once.

Without understanding anything and with my imagination going wild, I can't stand this any longer.

This one? No.

Next? No.

Kumatake-sensei: Hey!!

Oh, no, they're already inside the room.

Igase-sensei: Hey, you! What are you doing!?

The nuance of her scream changes.

These words aren't toward me, who didn't turn over.

Sasamaru: Hiyo!?

Hiyo: Honey! Now!

I look. Hiyo has entered the room and is blocking the disconnected door, as if shutting out the pursuing teachers.

Sasamaru: Sorry there!

One bed left: the innermost one.

I can see the shadow of a person beyond it.
It's Onitake-sensei.

Onitake-sensei is over there.

Kumatake-sensei: Hey! You're from the red team, aren't you!? Stop! Stop it!!

Hiyo: I'm sorry, teachers. I'll accept any scolding later.

Igase-sensei: I'm not talking about that! If you're worried about Onitake-sensei, stop it! Don't look!

Hiyo: Eh.

I now place my hand on the curtain.

Sasamaru: Teacher!!

I face the teacher and...

Igase-sensei: Stoooooooop!!

Sasamaru: Eh?

She's...not here?

Sasamaru: (There was a shadow.)

But there's no one here.

It's deserted.

Sasamaru: ...

And the bed is disheveled, as if someone was sleeping here until a moment ago.

Hiyo: Honey? How is Onitake-sensei?

From the entrance, Hiyo asks me.

Sasamaru: She's...not here.

Hiyo: Eh?

When I turn over, for some reason...

...For some reason, the teachers are spacing out a little.

As if {\i1}they can't be honestly happy, but they're relieved that we didn't see something.{\i0}

//2nd choice

There's no meaning in doing this.

I know this.

But I can't sit still.

We are sneaking into the second infirmary.

Sasamaru: (I'm sorry, teacher. I'll soon excuse myself.)

Just confirming.
I'll just confirm.

I'll go home after looking at the teacher.

I too think if this really has any meaning, but...

Sasamaru: (Still...)

It's quiet. I can't hear a single breath.

Sasamaru: (This is the place...right?)

What if they have already found the means to transport her and the teacher has already been taken to a hospital?
It would be good if this were true.

I walk through the sickroom with soft steps, as to not make any sound.

There are several beds, but all of them are empty.

Sasamaru: Is that...it?

The farthest one.

A curtain illuminated by the moonlight.

I can't see any shadow of a person from beyond it, but...
it's this late. She must be sleeping.

Sasamaru: (I'll go home...after taking a look at the teacher.)

Having decided on this, I approach it even more carefully in order not to make any sounds.

Then, I grab the curtain and...

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

The teacher isn't here.

The bed is cleanly tidied up, with no signs that someone slept on it.

Sasamaru: ...

What does this mean? Has the teacher really been transported already?

I would be relieved if this were the case, but...

Sasamaru: ...

Something...does not feel right.

//choice end

//subchapter
The Visitor's Name is "Illness"
November 5 (Thursday)
With You, Here and Now,

...What on earth happened?

The teacher wasn't beyond the curtain.

Sasamaru: (I wonder...where the teacher went to.)

I wonder if she has already been transported to the hospital.

At that time, I could only hear parts of the teachers' conversation.

Sasamaru: (Was I simply misunderstanding?)

I hope so.
I'm fine if the teacher is all right.

Sasamaru: (I'll go to the staff room later.)

There's no reason to hide the fact that the teacher went to the hospital.

I want proof to feel relieved...

...because my apprehension isn't stopping.

Araragi: I wonder if the teacher is all right.

Araragi is with a worried voice.

Harutsuge: If her condition is very bad...there's also the hospital at the foot of the mountain.

We didn't talk about yesterday's events to them.

It might be my misunderstanding. I don't want to make them worry.
If the teacher has already been taken to the hospital, my actions will simply be a funny story.

Although, in either case, it doesn't change the fact that we're worried about the teacher.

Sasamaru: Sorry, I'm going to the staff room. You can go ahead to the classroom.

Araragi: Ah, I'll go too.

Harutsuge: What a coincidence. I was just heading to the staff room, too.

Hiyo: Let's go together, then.

Good heavens.

Harutsuge: Really. What do they mean by "there's no need to worry"? We are here exactly because we're worried.

Harutsuge is trembling with anger.

Araragi: The teachers were strangely in panic.

No wonder Araragi is feeling down.
They didn't pay attention to us, and we were almost driven out of the staff room.

They said, "you don't have to worry about Onitake-sensei," but it seemed they didn't have time for us. So, we don't know if they took the teacher to the hospital or not.

Araragi: I wonder if Onitake-sensei is really that bad.

In the end, this is our worry.

Hiyo: They said there will be a school broadcast soon, and we're to wait at the classroom.

This is the only proper conversation we had.

Harutsuge: What the hell. If they're going to talk about the teacher through the broadcast, just tell us directly.

Sasamaru: Well, I don't think it's that.

Harutsuge, I understand your anger, but calm down.

Hiyo: But I wonder what broadcast that is.

Sasamaru: Hmm.

And thus, after arriving at the classroom, what jumps into our ears is the school broadcast just after the chime rings.

Female Student C: I repeat. All students, please assemble at the gymnasium.

It's the broadcast announcing a special whole-school meeting.

Harutsuge: Unsatisfied with the broadcast, they're going to talk about the teacher at a school meeting, eh.

Sasamaru: I don't think it's that, either.

Maybe not if something serious happened to the teacher, but...
wait, why on earth am I having these tragic thoughts?

Then, we move to the gymnasium.

Similarly, the other classes' students appear one after another.

After the students gather, the one who steps up to the stage is the school principal.

School Principal: Good morning, everyone.

After the customary introduction, the principal warns about the "rumor" that's alarming everyone recently.

School Principal: Such a rumor is spreading, but, everyone. Don't be deceived by groundless rumors and fulfill your duties as students.

Harutsuge: Aagh. Where's the news about Onitake-sensei?

Sasamaru: I said that he's not going to talk about it here.

Conversely speaking, if he's not talking about it here, then my futile worry is just pointless anxiety.

I'm relieved for now.

But...

Sasamaru: (Why are they gathering the whole school just for a warning about that rumor?)

After feeling relief, this starts weighting on my mind.

The rumor that "the ones around are strange."

The topic is that "everyone is feeling a 'discomfort,'" but I don't understand the meaning of bringing up this topic.

A rumor is a rumor.
It's "simply one's imagination."

Well, everyone has their own interpretation. There must be ones treating it as something serious, but is it really necessary to call everyone?

Sasamaru: (Seems there are many students saying, "I'm in bad shape," recently. They might not want to ignore this, but...)

This can be settled by each class' teacher at the morning homeroom.

I guess many students must be thinking this and not just me.

The students who were doubtful at first are taken aback.
I can feel a boring air drifting in the whole gymnasium.

Yellow Team Male Student A: You all, pay attention!!

And then...

One student steps forward from the rows of students and shouts toward everyone.

Sasamaru: (It's him!)

It's the one who punched me.
The student from the yellow team.

Yellow Team Male Student A: There's a reason he gathered everyone here! Stop and listen! Listen to him!!

Everyone starts feeling tense at the scream which can be taken as grief.

School Principal: Hey.

Yellow Team Male Student A: You too, teacher! Why don't you plainly and clearly say it!?

School Principal: W-what are you talking about?

After the sudden uproar, the teachers who are waiting at the edge of the gymnasium run up to the yellow team student.

But he breaks through the teachers' encirclement with almost a body blow and runs up to the stage.

Then, he takes the microphone from the school principal.

School Principal: Hey!

Yellow Team Male Student A: Everyone, listen!!

He raises his voice as much as his throat allows.

Yellow Team Male Student A: That rumor spreading among everyone. That is not your imagination!

Yellow Team Male Student A: This might sound very abrupt, but it's the truth! I am not lying!!

Yellow Team Male Student A: Listen, that is an "illness"!!

Unrest spreads like a wave.

Yellow Team Male Student A: The fact the teacher called us all here is due to the strange "discomfort" we've been feeling these last few days. It's one of the symptoms of the illness!!

Yellow Team Male Student A: A pathogen has been disseminated in this school!!

It's sudden.

Very sudden.

Sasamaru: (What did he just say?)

{\i1}Pathogen?{\i0}
He said that...{\i1}a pathogen has been disseminated?{\i0}

Yellow Team Male Student A: I heard the teacher talking. "That's the symptom of an illness." I doubted my ears. But something came to my mind. I remembered something.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Everyone's symptoms might still be light. "What's he saying?" You might think I'm crazy. But this illness has individual differences. I...we had the symptoms sooner.

Yellow Team Male Student A: I...I'm...still...a bit...fine...but...

Yellow Team Male Student A: My...my class...my classmates...

After he stutters his voice while weeping, the teachers hold him down.

Yellow Team Male Student A: Everyone. Isn't there someone calling something to mind?

But it's too late.

Too late.

I wonder what humans do when an unknown danger approaches.

Do they search the past for similar cases and look for a coping method?

Or do they immediately investigate the cause and discover a coping method themselves?

No.
Both are wrong.

The answer is shockingly simple.
The humans run away.

Harutsuge: They sure can run. It'd be the springtime of life if it were toward the sunset.

Harutsuge is standing by the window and looking at the situation outside.

Hiyo: They surely are.
Ah, he toppled.
And was trampled.

Harutsuge: Unbelievable. Didn't they learn that this time is "Pu-Ru-Sp"?

Hiyo: You mean don't push, don't run and don't speak?

Harutsuge: It would be indecent if you replaced with don't put it, don't rub, and don't spread it with your tongue.

Hiyo: I sincerely think this sometimes, but maybe the one we should call "middle-aged man" isn't Araragi-san but you, Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: How dare you say that to a fashion leader such as I.

Hiyo: Leaving aside your fashion sense, your ideas are very similar to a middle-aged man's ones, specially those really bad ones.

Harutsuge: Ah, they sure can run.

Hiyo: And also how you play dumb like that.

This is a terrible occurrence.

Disorder, complication, riot.
In short, panic.

Now, this school has fallen into panic.

However...

Harutsuge: I'm sure violence will govern this school before long. There will be a man with a mohawk carrying a thorny club and screaming 'yahoo' while running up a hill on a motorbike.

Contrary to the situation, we are a bit carefree.

Hiyo: I can't see your point, but you mean it's the end of the world, correct?

Harutsuge: No one will notice if you take advantage of the ruckus and touch someone's breasts. It all makes sense. Now I know why crimes increase in these situations.

Hiyo: And why do you look so envious? In the first place, it's very contradictory for an idea of "I got lucky for taking advantage of the ruckus" during a panic. I wonder if we should count this as a crime.

Araragi: Gotta accept it, Hiyo-chan. Harutsuge-chan is Harutsuge-chan at all times.

Hiyo: That's our Araragi-san. I completely agree with you.

Harutsuge: Aah...I can't get enough.

Everyone is as usual.
Ah, Harutsuge. Your nose is bleeding.

Sasamaru: (They're aiding me.)

I believe so.
Despite all this, my surroundings are the same as ever.

I'm really lucky to be able to spend time together with them.

Hiyo: But how on earth should we react to this?

Harutsuge: He said illness or something. The rumor of "the ones around are strange" is one of the symptoms?

Araragi: Does such an illness really exist?

Harutsuge: Though, I find it hard to believe.

We all tilt our heads.

We don't understand "why everyone in the school is so disordered."

Harutsuge: The abrupt tragedy assaulting the peaceful school, eh.

Araragi: That's so unrealistic.

And while we are here talking, everyone is flooding the school gates like a wave.

Everyone is frantic.

Araragi: We're so carefree, right?

Harutsuge: No, maybe we too are in panic. We simply haven't lost our cool.

Araragi: That might be so, but...why?

The difference between us and everyone might be "whether we called something to mind or not."

"Illness."
I'm reluctant in calling it this, but it was asserted so at the gymnasium.

When the rumor about "the ones around are strange" started, it spread abnormally fast, maybe because everyone was feeling this. But only we tilted our heads.

It was just an "I do recall something to mind." But this is the same logic as "the fortuneteller too will get it right if they say something very ordinary."

My "surroundings," which are Hiyo and the others, said that I look the same as always. And I also don't feel that I have changed.

It's hard to sense changes in oneself, but Hiyo and the others would point it out if I were strange.

And they're thinking the same.

So, the words "illness' symptoms" don't call anything to mind. First, we aren't "calling something to mind" at all.

Araragi: Though, I would never imagine that the bridge would collapse.

Yes, that was unexpected. Unexpected, but...

Sasamaru: If the bridge has collapsed, we won't be able to leave the school for a while. That's all there is to it, right?

That's all there is to it.

In this school with a boarding system, we don't have to leave the school. This has no impediment to our everyday lives.

Hiyo: But "unable to leave" also means "unable to enter." In short, the supply line has been severed.

Sasamaru: Ah, that's true.

But this should be solved in a short time.

Other than what they need to order, the school always has a certain amount stored, represented by the "menu comparatively easy to make." We won't starve to death right away.

Well, the phrasing "starve to death" might be an exaggeration, though.

I don't know how that bridge will be repaired, but I don't think we should panic about it.
No, I might simply be lacking a sense of danger.

Harutsuge: No, wait. Wait, wait. Thinking about it, it's a huge problem.

Suddenly, Harutsuge starts panicking.

Sasamaru: Why is that?

Have I perhaps overlooked something important?

Harutsuge: We won't be able to eat eels.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: Eels, I said eels. We must have eels delivered here.

Sasamaru: Aah, which reminds me, Harutsuge, you sometimes awfully crave for eels, right?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan loves eels very much.

Harutsuge: Though, that burned {\i1}thing{\i0} you gave me could only be called "something that was an eel."

Araragi: But you said that a little bit burnt is tastier.

Harutsuge: You don't call it "a little bit" if there's no edible part.

Araragi: But the bank president's teachings say, "It's all the same once it's in the stomach. Toss everything into the wok."

The logic of a middle-aged man overestimating the wok is going well today.
But Harutsuge is beautifully ignoring it.

Harutsuge: Aah, I won't be able to eat it for a while. What a torture.

She's agonizing intensely.

Sasamaru: (So, she likes it that much.)

I recall Harutsuge often supplicating when Hiyo was on duty.

Hiyo replied so naturally that I didn't notice it.
When we were kids, we didn't have chances to eat eel together.

Harutsuge: Aah, broiled in soy sauce...grilled without seasoning...

Sasamaru: Ah, but there's one thing, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Eel fillets...steamed eel...eel with salad...

Sasamaru: ...
...Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san. It's not widely known, but eel's blood has the neurotoxin ichthyotoxin included in it. If you ingest it by mistake, you may have symptoms such as diarrhea, bloody stool, vomiting, rashes, cyanosis, and difficulty in breathing.

Sasamaru: You don't feel like eating it anymore, right? You can endure it.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, you really chose the wrong person this time.

Sasamaru: By the way, there's a deadly poison included in the slippery surface of the eel, too.

Harutsuge: Go home. I have no food to give you.

And such are our problems.

There is an extreme temperature difference between our red team and the others.

In any case, we decide to head to the school gate, where everyone is gathering.

The school gate is tightly closed.

The teachers are positioned in front of the gate, becoming a wall against the advancing students.

Male Student A: Open it! Open it now!

Crowds of students are screaming out.

Kumatake-sensei: No, it's dangerous! The bridge has collapsed!

Male Student B: If there's no bridge, we'll take another path! Let us out!

Kumatake-sensei: There's no other path! Don't you already know this?

The teachers are instructing them to calm down.

We can confirm that the bridge is out even from this location.

Normally, we don't have to pass through the gate to see the bridge. We can see it from limited places inside the school.
But we can clearly see it from here.

But, for some reason, the students' remarks disprove this premise.
The fear of "unable to leave," impatience, and panic are taking away their calm judgment.

They still have the "school gate."
They can still go beyond it.
Even while knowing there's no road beyond it, the mentality of "we can go further than now" is pushing them.

But this situation won't continue forever.

Even if there are individual differences, humans can adapt to any situation.
There are even ones accepting the "we can't go any further than here" matter as a fact.

But this reason alone doesn't make the fear disappear.

The fear itself isn't so terrible.
First, fear is a signal telling a body abnormality, similar to "pain." It's a mentality in order to "protect oneself."

The ghastliness of fear is the several secondary feelings it brings forth.

What do humans do in times like these?

The impatience of "unable to run away."
The bottled-up anger against the unreasonableness.
All this entangles, blends, and...

Male Student A: It's your fault!!

Aah, that's right.
In times like these, humans search for a target to vent this mixture at.

Male Student A: It's you! You're the culprit!!

"Searching for a culprit."
Feelings held down during normal times cannot be held down during emergencies.

In times like these, humans search for a target to blame, saying "it's your fault things are like this."

Hiyo: Eh?

The one they point the finger at...
is Kumigami Hiyo, who just arrived.

Male Student A: You're the culprit who scattered the "illness"!!

Male Student B: That's right! You're the daughter of a famous doctor, right!? Isn't he researching some weird illness!?

Male Student C: H-hey. You serious? Kumigami-san did it?

Female Student A: Now that you mention it, I heard that Onitake-sensei has collapsed. Don't tell me that too was from the "illness"?

Male Student C: Then, Onitake-sensei collapsed because she was near you!?

"Witch hunt."

The word "culprit" intoxicates the group.
It is a word to narrow down the target and make clear the phenomenon's originator.

Excitement is also a type of intoxication.
Having found a target for attacking, the group forcefully takes out anything apparently related and seeks all of these reasons from the culprit.

And, for some reason, they are temporarily convinced that all the reasons have been investigated.

When the Black Death spread in Europe, the Jews suffered persecution for unthinkable suspicions.

Male Student B: It's your fault? So, it's all your fault, isn't it!?

Female Student B: Why? Why did you do this!?

Hiyo: N-no! I...

Male Student B: If it isn't you, then cure it! You're the daughter of a famous doctor, aren't you!?

They're nonsensical.

There's no reasoning at all.

But it's the magic of the word "culprit" that makes them convinced that "there is a reason" even when there isn't.

Male Student A: What will you do!? How will you take responsibility for this!?

Male Student C: Stop screwing with us! Why did you do something like this!?

Female Student A: Did we do something to you!?

Hiyo: Eh, a...ah...

A normal person's nerves cannot withstand this.
All and every word isn't getting across.

Not to mention her, unreasonably criticized like long ago.

Her body stiffens.
Words aren't coming out.
The vision sways, strongly projecting in her hazy eyes the past she doesn't want to remember.

And for this same reason...

...there's a person who, more than anyone here, cannot tolerate this situation.

Sasamaru: Stop it!!

I scream as much as my throat lets me.
I stand in their way in order to protect Hiyo.

Sasamaru: Calm down, everyone.

Male Student A: You're the red team's...You gonna defend her!?

Honestly, I don't know why they have such a strong sense of danger.

Why are they so impatient that they can easily believe a fake story such as "illness"?

I don't know, but I know about the reality cornering them.

It is a situation that I must understand, willfully or nor.

But this is exactly why...
I say this.

Sasamaru: I don't want to believe you all can give in so easily to this situation.

Male Student A: Huh!?

I don't care if they think I'm immature.
I too have something I cannot yield.

Sasamaru: I was suspected as the culprit of the interference incident. But didn't everyone believe me? Didn't you say it was all a misunderstanding?

I don't want to suspect their hearts...their feelings of believing me.

Sasamaru: Everyone here is proud. Everyone here can proudly say we're students of the Yumemidori Academy. That's why that boring suspicion disappeared. Am I right?

Male Student A: T-that time was different!

Sasamaru: It was not. There's nothing different.

Male Student A: Th...then, can you prove Kumigami-san isn't the culprit?

Sasamaru: ...

Male Student A: Can you?

Now, there's no meaning in pointing out, "and you, can you prove Hiyo is the culprit?"

I know.
Right now, whoever points the finger first has the advantage.

I know that the one who is being pointed the finger at has the disadvantage.

Now, everyone is cornered.

If they just calmed down...

I believe that...this isn't how they are.

And most importantly...

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Behind me, Harutsuge is at my right and Araragi at my left.

We're standing here in order to defend Hiyo.

Then, I have nothing to fear!

Sasamaru: I'll ask, then. If Hiyo is the culprit, why has she contracted the illness too?

Everyone is cornered.
A sense of danger is supporting them in a place unknown to us.

"Illness."
They believe the source of the "discomfort" is the "illness." Meaning that there are "no exceptions" here.

Sasamaru: Is there someone in this school who hasn't felt the symptoms? If Hiyo has spread the illness, isn't it strange that she too contracted it?

Male Student A: W-well...

I know this is a lame excuse.
This logic is full of holes.

Female Student A: It's not strange.

Female Student A: If Kumigami-san was performing some weird research...for example, growing some pathogen inside some test tube.

Female Student A: What if she broke it by mistake? Then, it's not strange that Kumigami-san contracted it.

Like this. It is a logic that makes me unable to retort.

In fact, I know that "anything I say here is meaningless."
What she said in objection just now is a very absurd logic.

But I must answer back.

At this moment, I must not let the other party do as they please.

What I said to the blue sisters once.
And what I replied to my father.

I already learned it.

At this moment, I must answer back with anything I have.

Sasamaru: I have evidence to believe her.

No matter how stupid it is to the other party...
I must say this in a loud voice.

Sasamaru: Because Hiyo hasn't said, "I am the culprit."

Female Student A: Huh?

Sasamaru: Isn't that right, Hiyo?

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: You did nothing to raise suspicion, right?

Hiyo: Y-yes, I didn't.

Sasamaru: Did you hear? Hiyo didn't do it.

Female Student A: Stop messing with us! What kind of proof is that!?

Sasamaru: Hiyo would never lie to us!!

I raise my voice as if it wasn't already loud enough.

Sasamaru: So, this is enough reason to believe her.

Male Student B: That's reason for you to believe her! It has nothing to do with us!!

Sasamaru: If you're still suspecting, I'll go and call for help.

After these words, commotion spreads throughout the crowd.

Sasamaru: But in exchange, stop calling Hiyo the culprit. All right?

Male Student B: Hah. You're defending your friend because she's the culprit.

Sasamaru: Then, how about you go instead?

Male Student B: W-why me?

Sasamaru: Or you can go. How about it?

Male Student A: W-well, I...

Sasamaru: We're unable to get in touch with the outside. Someone has to go, right?

I didn't think it would come to this, but I can't turn back now.

Sasamaru: Maybe someone at the foot of the mountain noticed the incident and is coming here. Maybe they'll notice that the bridge collapsed and that we're isolated.

Sasamaru: But this is "maybe." It's not for sure. There's the possibility that "no one noticed our situation."

Honestly, I don't know how everyone is feeling.

But they're the ones who, with a smile, lifted us high into the air that day.

It's a small price if this can clear up Hiyo's suspicions.

Sasamaru: Do you understand? We must act. No one wishes to stand still and do nothing.

Sasamaru: Anyone is fine. You. Or you.

One after another, I point at those who were criticizing Hiyo a moment ago.

And each time, they immediately avert their eyes.

Sasamaru: That's why I'm saying that I'll go. Does anyone have a problem?

The crowd keeps silent.

Sasamaru: Don't worry, Hiyo.

Sasamaru: I'll call for help and prove it's not your fault.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: So, act with confidence.

I start walking toward the school gate.

A path is made in the crowd, which is similar to a large wave.

There's an individual blocking my path.

Kumatake-sensei: Sorry, Suu-kun.

Sasamaru: Kumatake-sensei?

It's Kumatake-sensei, the teacher of the blue team.

Kumatake-sensei: It's our duty to call for help. You, a student, should wait for rescue in a safe place.

Sasamaru: But...

Kumatake-sensei: Sorry. Seems there's much to be learned from the students.

Sasamaru: Teacher.

//subchapter
The Two Manuals
November 11 (Wednesday)
With You, Here and Now,

And thus, we decide to wait for help.

The school is closed.

This is no time for lessons, and the school has its academic functions paralyzed. Instructions to wait in our respective dormitories have been handed down.

Sasamaru: But it was so sudden that we have nothing to do.

At these words he speaks...
I reflexively do an awkward smile in agreement.

Hiyo: We actually are students. When the center of our every day, the school, suddenly closes, we have no idea about what to do.

Sasamaru: You're right...though, there are people who say "I don't wanna go to school" or "I want more time for me."

Sasamaru: That must be because they think they "must go" to school.

This feeling is something we forgot long ago, because we enrolled here wishing to learn.

Hiyo: That's right. The moment you think, "I must go," it becomes an obligation.

Sasamaru: Conversely, you end up with too much free time if you're told "you don't have to come." Just like now.

Hiyo: So, now, we are feeling the value of the "school" because we were given "time to do as we please."

Sasamaru: Yeah. "I wanna go to school." "I wanna attend classes."

And like this, we look at each other and smile.

This is a somewhat carefree time, unfit for the situation.

To be able to calmly spend time like this is just...

Hiyo: Ho...honey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: Well...t-thank you very much!

I lower my head and express my gratitude.

Sasamaru: About what?

He's staring in puzzlement.

Hiyo: At the school gate...you, well, defended me.

Sasamaru: Aah...stop that. There's no need to thank me.

Hiyo: No, please let me say it.

Sasamaru: Stop that. If you do that, I'll never be grateful enough, even if I repay you every single day.

Hiyo: W-why are you saying that?

Sasamaru: Because I'm always grateful to you.

And he's always radiant for being able to think like this.

These are days when time idly passes by.

At first, everyone was confused, but...
human adaptability is really something.

We get used even to such a situation.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Oh, Harutsuge. What's up?

Harutsuge: Where's everyone?

Sasamaru: Hiyo and Araragi are preparing to go to school.

Harutsuge: To school?

Sasamaru: Yeah. All that happened, and they couldn't go check on her.

Of course, I'm talking about how Onitake-sensei is doing.

But, in this situation, even if they ask about the well-being of Onitake-sensei, who should have been transported to a hospital at the foot of the mountain, nothing can be done since they can't get in touch with it.

Nevertheless, we can't keep still forever.
We want to confirm her well-being.

Harutsuge: So, everyone is thinking the same.

Good. Harutsuge too has changed into her uniform.

Changing into a uniform when going to school.
This is so like the diligent Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Then, may I discuss something with you while we wait for them?

Sasamaru: Discuss?

Harutsuge discussing with me?
I reflexively straighten my posture.

Harutsuge: I thought much about this, but, presently, we're simply waiting. Everyone's panic from before has completely slowed down, maybe because there's nothing else to do.

Sasamaru: That's true.

Well, it's way better than more of that.

Harutsuge: And exactly because of this, there are ones stimulated and immersed in creating their projects instead. Very fitting for this school, where artists' aspirants gather, but...

Harutsuge: ...I guess I'm a realist. I don't feel like this at all.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

What does she want to say?

Harutsuge: I tried thinking about a concrete reason for that, but I think it's because our everyday rhythm has gone out of order.

Harutsuge: The school is closed. The students are acting as they please. They must feel dull after these successive days that are no different from a day off.

Harutsuge: And, in my own way, I was thinking about how to spend these days.

Sasamaru: How to spend these days?

Harutsuge: Yeah. A guide of how to spend them.

Sasamaru: I don't quite get it, but everyone spends days off in their respective ways, right? Harutsuge, shouldn't you stop thinking hard and simply do as you want?

I reply exactly what Harutsuge once told me.

Harutsuge: I realized this after this situation started. A day off as I want only exists when an every day different from days off exists.

Sasamaru: An every day different from days off?

Harutsuge: Wake up in the morning, get ready, go to school, take classes until evening, and return home. It's this flow itself.

Harutsuge: We can enjoy days off because such days exist. I realized I was able to enjoy my days off so far because there was such a distinction.

Sasamaru: Aah.

I somehow understand what she's trying to say.
It's the same thing I discussed with Hiyo earlier.

In short, Harutsuge is the type who is unable to become a neet.

Even if she became so after getting tired from the busy every day and human relationships, her consciousness of "I must do something" strengthens when this becomes her every day.

She's the type who cannot deceive this consciousness and adjust herself to spend simple days withdrawn.

Harutsuge: But even after realizing this, I can't, out of my own convenience, ask for the school to reopen. So, in my own way, I'm thinking about creating an "every day different from the day off."

Sasamaru: So, you'll create your own timetable?

Harutsuge: Something like that. Though, help might soon come and turn it all for naught.

Makes sense. Got it.

Sasamaru: But what will you use as a guide?

Harutsuge: Exactly. That's what I want to discuss. Sasamaru-kun, what do you think I should do?

Sasamaru: Hmm...

I think for a bit and...

Sasamaru: Well, thinking normally, we are students. So, isn't study time our main axis?

Harutsuge: That makes sense.

Sasamaru: In addition, different from students vaguely studying without knowing their destination, we clearly know where we want to alight.

Sasamaru: As a student aspiring to become an artist, isn't it reasonable to spend our days polishing our skills and senses in order to approach the artist's shape we aspire to?

Harutsuge: That's right. What you're saying is extremely plausible, but...

Sasamaru: Is there a problem?

Harutsuge: I wonder if I should do this.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: You see, I'm sure I can't become a genius. If I were a "real one," I'd be immersed in my project regardless of the situation. I wouldn't worry about this in the first place.

Harutsuge: Also, if I were a prodigy working hard to become a "real one," I'd now have time. I would efficiently use this time for my future, just as you said.

Harutsuge: Now, I'm astonished. I'm neither. I'm {\i1}neither of these.{\i0}

Harutsuge: I knew I wasn't a genius, but it seems I can't become one.

Harutsuge: I think like this. "Despite being in this situation, I have doubts if I should work toward my dream."

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I'm disappointed. Disappointed with myself.

Sasamaru: I think you shouldn't think too hard about it.

Harutsuge: For me, this is a serious issue.

Sasamaru: I know. I didn't mean it like that. Harutsuge, I think you're simply diligent.

Harutsuge: Diligent?

Sasamaru: Yes. You're rigid with yourself. You can't work toward yourself unless you forcefully set your heart on it.

Sasamaru: You can't pursue your dreams unless you always keep telling yourself: "I don't have time for this. I have more important things to do."

Sasamaru: And yet, you end up helping a friend in trouble. On the day someone confesses to you, you end up seriously thinking about it, {\i1}despite not having time for it.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Though I think this isn't diligent, it's simply kindness.

Harutsuge: Hmmmm.

Sasamaru: You can't consent?

Harutsuge: No, you're on the mark...I think. Putting aside if I'm kind or not.

Oh boy.

Sasamaru: Well, it's not like we can measure your talent as an artist with this. Harutsuge is Harutsuge. You should just be yourself.

Sasamaru: If you think, "despite being in this situation," just prioritize it first. I think you shouldn't forcefully connect it to a disappointment with yourself.

Harutsuge: Got it. I'll...be more myself. I'll create a timetable more like myself.

Sasamaru: Yeah. Although, a timetable fitting for this situation is...

It's kinda difficult since we aren't accurately grasping the "this situation."

Harutsuge: The manual.

Sasamaru: The manual?

Harutsuge: I just remembered. There's a "manual" in this school.

Harutsuge: This school is in a mountainous region, right? Since its foundation, they were concerned with the possibility of the school's functions temporarily shutting down in cases like these...well, maybe not from illnesses.

Harutsuge: There should be a handbook for times like these.

Sasamaru: And that's the manual?

Harutsuge: Exactly. There must be the coping method too, but also the preparations. Like the rules about what to do if this or that happens.

Harutsuge: It is a student manual, prepared from the point of view of understanding the environment of the place you chose to study at and always be prepared.

Sasamaru: Aah.

Which reminds me, I think they explained that when I first came to school.

Sasamaru: But doesn't it have only harmless and inoffensive stuff in it?

Such manuals are always like that.

Harutsuge: I don't mind it. What I want is exactly that. That will be our guide.

Sasamaru: Sure.

Harutsuge: In short, I want a standard to rely on. I've never fallen into a situation like this one.

I nod with "well, no one here has," and Harutsuge does an awkward smile at myself with "and I even called you a 'by-the-book human.'"

Harutsuge: Thanks to you, I know what I should do now. Thanks.

Sasamaru: Don't mind it.

Harutsuge: Boys sure are reliable in times like these. You have a levelheaded way of thinking.

Sasamaru: When you say that to me, I'm so happy I could cry.

Harutsuge: Well, now that's decided, let's strike while the iron is hot. Let's stop by after going to the staff room.

Sasamaru: And where is it?

Harutsuge: It's probably in the office room. Don't they put that in a place that deals with the students?

And thus, after joining with Hiyo and Araragi, we head to the staff room.

Sasamaru: Excuse me.

First, we ask about Onitake-sensei.

But the answer we get is, "the teacher who went to call for help hasn't returned."

Summing up, they don't know about Onitake-sensei's well-being because they can't get in touch with her.
There's no point in blaming the teachers about this.

Then, we change the question.

It's what the yellow team student said at the gymnasium the other day.
We ask about the "illness" that became the source of the panic.

We are bothered about where those crazy words came from.

And the one who appears is a considerably elderly teacher.

Elderly teacher: Ah, sorry for all the confusion.

Sasamaru: Thank you very much for sparing time while you're so busy.

The teacher gives a cheerful impression.

They said this teacher has more details for us.
I throw a question at him.

Elderly teacher: Well, about that. The school's present situation has already been told.

Sasamaru: Eh!?

"Already been told"? What does this mean?

Elderly teacher: Do you know about the "Crying Devil"?

Sasamaru: Ah, yes. It's a legend passed down in this school, isn't it?

Hiyo told me about it once.

The story about a crybaby devil that must do evil because he is a devil.

Elderly teacher: Yes. The truth is, some say that actually happened. And I believe this.

Sasamaru: Ah, okay.

Elderly teacher: Did you notice? If you compare the "Crying Devil" and the school's present situation, there are too many coincidences, correct?

It was an autumn day.
A devil arrived at the mountains. Their flowers splendidly blooming in profusion.

It was a crybaby devil.

Sasamaru: A discomfort?

Hiyo: Yes. They say...that's not like her, or him. We're living in groups, so, we have each of our respective communities. But each one is feeling like this.

The devil faced the mountain's trees and shouted cruel words.

The devil's cruel words returned like an echo, and, before it realized, the trees too were unanimously speaking those cruel words.

The devil's words had a power called "kotodama."

Araragi: H-how can you say that?

Harutsuge: An idiot is an idiot. There's no other word for her.

Despite not wanting to do it, the trees were insulting each other.

"I don't want to say cruel things to my friends!"

After thinking this and enduring it, the trees were then withering one after another.

If you oppose the words of the devil that has the kotodama power, your body will scream in pain.

Sasamaru: That's correct.

Now that he mentioned it, I feel there are many coincidences.

But this is just "now that he mentioned."
This is just a coincidence between an old story and the school's present situation. Is there a meaning to this?

Elderly teacher: I think that the "devil's kotodama" in this story might be a local disease.

Sasamaru: A local disease?

Elderly teacher: Yes. A disease spreading in a specific region. This story has many points to consent to.

Many?
I want to tilt my head, but the teacher acts proudly.

Elderly teacher: Well, I've been claiming this for a long time, ha ha ha. And so, it has finally been proven.

Sasamaru: O-of course.

Somehow...the teacher looks happy.

Elderly teacher: In the first place, fairy tales, nursery tales, and old stories don't show up from nowhere.

Elderly teacher: Just as the name "old story" says, it's an event that actually happened. They simply used it as the base for an easy-to-understand story.

Sasamaru: Eh, ah, sure.

Harutsuge: ...So, that's what this is.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Beside me, Harutsuge lets out an unusual voice of agreement at this moment.

Elderly teacher: Unrealistic matters are included in "old stories" as its axis, so, you might think it's an absurd made-up tale. A certain kind of amusement is necessary for it to "be handed down" as a story.

Elderly teacher: I believe there must be elements included as a necessity, but if you remove this, what's left is an "event" that actually happened. No matter how absurd it is, it's a fact. A fact.

Elderly teacher: Also, in order for it to be "handed down," it's best to teach while they're still children. So, a theme is included as a lesson for the children, and, sometimes, facts are distorted.

Harutsuge: No, teacher. Thank you very much for your opinion. I understand it well.

Elderly teacher: Ooh, very good. So, you understand it too?

Harutsuge: Yes. Thank you very much for sparing your valuable time. We'll take our leave now.

Sasamaru: H-hey, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge grabs my arm, and we hurriedly leave the staff room.

Hiyo: I learned the gist of it.

Hiyo says this after we leave the staff room.

Harutsuge: Yeah, it's what the "patriarch" said. No wonder.

Sasamaru: "Patriarch"?

Araragi: That teacher is called the "patriarch," and he's like an adviser even among the teachers.

Harutsuge: Yes. He's the brains of the teachers. When a problem occurs, they always ask for the opinion of that teacher. He has a calm personality and is very beloved among the teachers.

Sasamaru: Wow.

Harutsuge: His name is "Washio."

Sasamaru: Amazing.

Or rather, this school has many teachers with unusual names.
I'm one to talk, though.

Sasamaru: And what that patriarch...what Washio-sensei said. What's so special about it?

Hiyo: In short, "that teacher's opinion has a strong influence."

Hiyo: Looking from a different angle, "you can't ignore what he says, no matter what it is."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: That's what I mean. That teacher has a good character, is reliable, and is the central personage of the teachers. But this is exactly why we cannot ignore even his strange topics.

Harutsuge: It's a credit for always depending on him.

Sasamaru: Strange topic...you mean the one just now?

Harutsuge: Yes. That teacher likes {\i1}those.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Err, isn't that...

Harutsuge: Well, you don't have to say it. It's a boy's adventurous spirit.

Araragi: He's normally a good teacher.

Of course. I understand what they mean.

It's "that thing."

These situations create misunderstandings, and the students who listen to it also misunderstand. And this accumulation of negative chains gave birth to the conception of "illness."

Sasamaru: (Ridiculous.)

But I'm relieved.
The illness and symptoms are just make-believe.

We should simply wait for the return of the teachers who went to call for help.

Thinking this, the devil took two handfuls of ashes from his pocket.

"One of these two ashes is an ash to live without withering. You may choose one."

Next, Harutsuge and I arrive at the library.

I don't know if it's because they're busy with everything or if they abandoned their jobs, but...
the clerk isn't in the office and the window is closed.

Sasamaru: Where is it?

Harutsuge: Unless it's a document that requires taking notes and stamping, I think it should be in a place the students can easily find.

Yes, the office's counter is not a place the students often visit.
It's not strange if it was scattered around the library.

Sasamaru: Ah, is that it?

After searching for a while, something like a book catches my eye.

Harutsuge: I guess it is.

"Emergency Measures Manual."

But...

...there's the "School Issue" one and...
the "Student Council Issue" one?

Sasamaru: There are...two kinds?

There are two books here.

Both are simple, dozen-pages bundled together, but the cover is different.

But this is nothing to worry about. Both should have similar contents.

I'm sure the school manual has contents the teachers would think of, and, conversely, the student council one, what the students would.
I turn the pages in order to compare both.

Sasamaru: What...is this?

I reflexively speak out.

First, the "School Issue Manual."

There are very, very obvious contents written in it.

It says that, due to the school's location, the first thing you should be careful about is the mountain weather, which changes easily.

It says to be extra careful at night. If you get careless even on a well-known path, sometimes you may encounter unforeseen harm.

Etc, etc.
Etc, etc.

All of its contents make you nod in agreement.

However, the other one, the "Student Council Issue Manual"...
The contents written in it...

It says, "the name is a code."

It says, "a photo is nothing more than a visual record."

Etc, etc.
Etc, etc.

What the heck?

Harutsuge: I don't know which student council made that, but that's quite the sense of humor.

Peeking at its contents beside me, Harutsuge mutters with amazement.

Sasamaru: Wait. Even if they got carried away with it, I can't make sense of this.

Harutsuge: The creators themselves might have thought it was fun. That's how lame jokes are.

Sasamaru: I wonder if I may jab with "no one raised complaints?"

Harutsuge: Maybe they created it, but no one read it. They buried so no one would pick up the jokes or something.

Sasamaru: Yeah. We too are only searching for it after this situation came.

Harutsuge: The student council issue manual. Maybe this is a dream book the student council crammed with jokes they believed to be beautiful.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Harutsuge: Dreams are often consigned to oblivion.

Sasamaru: So, it's a graveyard of dreams.

Harutsuge: Exactly. Tackled while believing in a loud laugh, it is the student council's gravestone.

Sasamaru: And why are you standing straight and bowing?

But that makes sense.

No one made a fuss because no one read it.
Although everyone knew about its existence, they soon forgot about it.

And even if they remembered, they wouldn't look for it outside a situation like this one.

And so, it kept silently existing at the corner of the school while covered with dust.

Sasamaru: It kinda makes you cry.

Harutsuge: Yeah. I don't feel it is someone else's business.

Sasamaru: Maybe, Harutsuge. Do you have...a joke book like this one secretly consigned to oblivion somewhere?

Harutsuge: Wanna hear?

Sasamaru: No, I'm good.

Harutsuge: Wanna hear?

Sasamaru: No, I'm good.

Harutsuge: You wanna hear, don't you!?

Sasamaru: You just wanna say it!?

Harutsuge: Yes, that was...when I was secretly fighting to put a smile on everyone in the world.

Sasamaru: (And there she goes.)

Harutsuge: ...And that's my story, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hey, it's getting dark. That's no longer a made-up story.

Harutsuge: And like this, there's definitely a tearful, dramatic story hidden behind the student council issue manual.

Sasamaru: So, want to choose this student council issue manual as the basis of our every day?

Harutsuge: Who would follow that joke of a manual? Are you stupid?

Sasamaru: What on earth was all that preface of yours about!?

Harutsuge: That is one matter. This is another.

Sasamaru: Wow, what convenient words.

Well, in any case, it's unproductive to argue about this.

In fact, this joke of a manual is here before us.

Harutsuge: But looking closely, it seems to be printed every year.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Look. There's the issued year written.

...It's true.

I don't know when it was created, but seems like it's faithfully printed every year.

What on earth are they thinking?
Don't tell me it isn't "faithfully printed every year" but actually "created by the student council of that year."

If possible, I don't even want to think about this.

Harutsuge: Well, Sasamaru-kun. I'll ask just in case. Between these two manuals, which one do you think it's better to follow?

Sasamaru: I don't even have to think about that.

//choice
"School Issue Manual"
"Student Council Issue Manual"

//1st choice

Of course, it's the School Issue Manual.
Or rather, this is the only one to choose.

Harutsuge: Which one is it? Think carefully.

Sasamaru: No, I don't need time to think about it. Of course, it's the...

//2nd choice (this choice skips the above 3 lines)
//choice end

Sasamaru: (...Huh?)

At this moment, the first one who tilts his head at my choice is none other than myself.

It's ridiculous.
No matter how you think, it's ridiculous.

Despite this, why...

Sasamaru: (Why am I thinking that the "student council manual is correct"?)

I'm about to choose it.

I'm about to choose that joke of a student council manual.

Sasamaru: (No.)

I'm not about to choose.

{\i1}From the start, I had already decided with the student council manual.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (But why?)

Harutsuge: Which one?

Sasamaru: I...

Why?

Why am I about to assert this with confidence?

Sasamaru: This one.

The one I hold out to Harutsuge is the Student Council Issue Manual.

Harutsuge: Hmm, well. That's funny, though. But I think this joke is already past its expiration date.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: It's this one.

Harutsuge: ...

I know how ridiculous I am being.

Sasamaru: (But it's this one. It has to be the student council manual.)

Sasamaru: {\i1}(It has to be this one.){\i0}

Pushed by this feeling similar to an unreasonable but compulsive idea, I hand over the manual to Harutsuge as if pushing it onto her.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...I know you're honest. I'm also fully aware that there's not a tint of joke when your eyes are like that.

Sasamaru: It's this one.

Harutsuge: It's the student council manual, right?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge: ...Got it. If you're so intended, I'll follow it. However...

Harutsuge tilts her head.

Harutsuge: ...are we really putting {\i1}this{\i0} into practice?

Harutsuge: Thanks, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: It was nothing.

I wonder if this is really the correct choice.

I don't have confidence in my own decision.

I wonder with what feelings Harutsuge said, "thanks."

Sasamaru: Nngh!

Suddenly, a pain like being pierced by a needle runs through my right arm.

Harutsuge: What's wrong?

Sasamaru: It's nothing.

What...was that?

Harutsuge: Well, let's read it again.

Harutsuge opens the manual.

I pretend that nothing happened and nod.

Harutsuge: Number one. "The name is a code."

Well, what does it mean?

Harutsuge: It's not something like "do this, do that, be careful with this." It starts with a conclusion.

Sasamaru: How do I say...philosophic?

This feels more like the writer's view of life than a manual.

Harutsuge: And how are we supposed to use this as a manual?

Sasamaru: It's still the beginning. Maybe it's the "guidelines" before entering the proper procedures?

Harutsuge: "Very good." Or so I admire. But this is actually extremely unfriendly.

That's true.
But it's pointless to say this now.

Sasamaru: Maybe we should think of this as a password. Just like a treasure map.

Harutsuge: I'm ungrateful that several of these are in the library everyone uses, but it's more interesting if you think that way.

Sasamaru: Let's think about its meaning, then.

Number one.
"The name is a code."

Harutsuge: Hmm. It seems the name is a code.

Sasamaru: You just abandoned the thinking part.

Harutsuge: It's already concluded. I don't have a clue as to where to start.

Sasamaru: Hmmm...maybe we should take it as "perceive the name as a code."

Harutsuge: In short, is it like "the name is a number"?

Sasamaru: A number?

Harutsuge: I've never been imprisoned, so, I don't know, but you often see "Prisoner Number 0034," right? An environment where they call by the number and not by the name.

Harutsuge: We should perceive it not as "called by a number" but as "I got a new name." The name of "Prisoner Number 0034."

Harutsuge: Summing up, a name exists because of the reason "it's inconvenient when calling one another." It's the same when deciding a "number" to a product. The way of thinking of "it's simply to distinguish it from others."

Sasamaru: That's a kinda lonesome way of thinking.

Harutsuge: But thinking thoroughly, this is the only meaning a name has. It's this way of thinking I'm talking about.

Of course.
Yes, that might be true if you think about the functionality of a name.

Harutsuge: I'm Harutsuge-san from the Kashi household, but if there were another "Harutsuge" in the same household, there would be no way to distinguish us. Then, they name something else, like Natsutsuge or Akitsuge.

Sasamaru: Yes, there might be only one Harutsuge in the Kashi household, but there might be someone else called "Harutsuge," right?

Harutsuge: But that has no problem. Yamada Harutsuge or Tanaka Harutsuge. Both are the Harutsuge from the Yamada household and the Harutsuge from the Tanaka one. It's not the Harutsuge from the Kashi household. You can distinguish.

That's true. I'm a bit confused now.

Sasamaru: Even if there were someone named Harutsuge among the Kashi household's ancestors, you can distinguish by the generation number.

Harutsuge: Yes. In fact, in the era where they didn't have surnames or the person wasn't allowed to use one, they were called "so-and-so from so-and-so village" or "so-and-so, son of so-and-so."

Sasamaru: I understand the logic. Summing up, this manual is telling us to do the same.

Harutsuge: That's how it is, "Sasamaru-kun."

"Sasamaru-kun."

So, this name Harutsuge is used to call is nothing more than a code to distinguish me from others.

The human called "Harutsuge" is simply adding "kun" to Sasamaru from the Suu household.

Sasamaru: Then..."Harutsuge." What meaning does this have?

This is a truly simple question.

Harutsuge: I understand what we must do, but it doesn't feel good to not know the intention. Right, "Sasamaru-kun"?

Although, from this item, I feel that what we "should do" is simply to "change our perception."

Harutsuge: Here's my idea. Let's say I ask my katana teacher to coach me. Then, he says, "do 1000 practice swings in one day."

Harutsuge: At this time, there's a great difference in the progress between "to do it just because you were told to" and "to do it while pondering the reason he made you do so."

It's a manner of speaking fitting for the hard-working Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: Well, progress aside...now that we've decided to follow this manual, it's not in vain to think about its intentions. The other entries are similarly cryptic. It should be easier to decipher it like this.

Harutsuge: Hmm, which means...

Harutsuge crosses her arms once.

Harutsuge: It appears it's the closing time of the Harutsuge Laboratory inside my head. Smoke is about to come out. If only Hiyo-kun were here.

Sasamaru: I'll explain this to Hiyo later. But this is something we decided on. In order to explain, we must first think about this ourselves.

Harutsuge: That's true, but I feel regretful when I think this would already be settled if your partner were instead Hiyo-kun.

Sasamaru: What are you talking about? This whole time, I was simply following your train of thought, Harutsuge. It's I who should feel regretful.

Harutsuge: Oh boy. Guess you wouldn't understand if I said that "I just happened to know it."

Sasamaru: ...?

Harutsuge: Well, whatever. We must first think about it ourselves. Sorry for making you keep me company.

Sasamaru: Stop being so reserved. I agreed to this too.

Besides, it was me who chose this manual.

Sasamaru: The name.

Harutsuge: The name.

Sasamaru: The name, huh.

Harutsuge: It sure is the name.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: The name.

Harutsuge: The name.

Sasamaru: The name, eh.

Harutsuge: The name it is.

But we have no clues. We don't know where to start.

Sasamaru: In times like these, we need to change our way of thinking.

Harutsuge: What do you mean?

Sasamaru: We are thinking about "why do we need to perceive the name as a code?" Conversely, we should think about "what is a name if it isn't a code?"

Sasamaru: Long story short, this manual is "trying to make us perceive that a name is a code" in order to not make us perceive this.

Harutsuge: Nice one. I got wet a little.

Sasamaru: Sure, sure. And if it's not a code, a name is...

For one instant, my father's face crosses my mind.

My chest stings a little.

Sasamaru: For everyone, isn't a name something like a "pride"?

Harutsuge: A "pride"?

Harutsuge makes an unexpected face.

Sasamaru: Yeah. The pride of "I'm so-and-so from the so-and-so household."

I think this is true for everybody.

Harutsuge: Hmmm.

But Harutsuge is tilting her head.

Harutsuge: Doesn't that only apply if you come from a distinguished family?

Sasamaru: Really?

Harutsuge: Yeah. What most people feel toward their own name isn't "pride," it's "attachment." Unless it's a noble daughter like Hiyo-kun.

Is that so?

To me, that's something very enviable.

After the incident with my father, I'd have become the child of my aunt's household.
I'll never say this out loud, but if I really had become...

...I think I'd be proud to be the Sasamaru of that household.

A moment ago, Harutsuge kinda praised me, but I think I'm lacking something for not understanding this.

Sasamaru: But...

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Sasamaru: There's someone to put the "name," right?

But I want to hang on for a bit.

Harutsuge: That's true.

Sasamaru: So, our names are precious ones that our parents gave us, right?

A name that a father of the so-and-so household, together with a mother who married the so-and-so household, gave to a child born at this so-and-so household.

I'm sure this doesn't change even if the positions of the father and the mother were reversed, or if there were another godparent.

So, the name is an important element displaying the bonds with the parents.

From this moment, the so-and-so household becomes your real "home."
Becoming a "pride."

...So we wish.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Then, Harutsuge makes a somewhat mysterious expression.

Harutsuge: I won't be of use, then. My name doesn't display a bond with my parents.

Sasamaru: But why?

Harutsuge: My name is like a man's name, right?

Sasamaru: Hmm...well, now that you mentioned.

Yes, thinking again, "Harutsuge" feels like a man's name.

Harutsuge: Didn't you think this the first time you heard it?

Sasamaru: When we were kids?

I didn't think that.
In those days, I was accepting everything as they were.

...And I don't mean in a good way.

Sasamaru: I wonder.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

After making an ambiguous smile, as if she understood or maybe not, Harutsuge says this.

Harutsuge: ...My name "Harutsuge" was chosen by my father, who had no doubt that a son would be born.

Sasamaru: {\i1}No doubt?{\i0}

Harutsuge: Yeah, he didn't doubt it. I guess he was sure that "my child will be a man."

Sasamaru: But why so sure?

Harutsuge: You don't need a reason to assume things. When you assume without any proof, it's already absolute for the person himself.

Well, prejudice is like that.
But I somehow can't agree.

Sasamaru: But it was actually a girl who was born. And he still named you "Harutsuge"?

Harutsuge: Correct.

Sasamaru: So, he tried to raise you as a man...wait, it's not a manga story like this, is it?

Harutsuge: A bit different...but kinda similar.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: Yes. My father treated me as a man. He tried to persist with his prejudice.

Sasamaru: Well...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. Just now, you thought, "Aah, so, that's why she has such a manly personality."

Sasamaru: Wait, I didn't think that.

Harutsuge: Turning serious. Very suspicious.

Oh, boy. She always tries to make fun.

Sasamaru: But, since you know the details of your name, that's like "a long time ago." Now it's like a funny story between father and daughter, right?

Harutsuge: I just said it. {\i1}"He tried to persist with his prejudice."{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: My father didn't "raise me as a man despite knowing I was a girl." He really believed I was a man.

Sasamaru: Wait a minute. He didn't induce you to think that. He was under that impression, right?

Harutsuge: That's right.

Sasamaru: Then, whom did you hear that story from?

Because this means her father should be calling her a man even now.

Harutsuge: Of course, from my father.

Sasamaru: Wait.

Harutsuge: It's simple. I was {\i1}put up for adoption while being told that.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh.

Harutsuge: One day, he suddenly and indifferently said, "so, ya were a woman," as if he had just noticed it. Then, he said, "I don't need ya, then."

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I was still four at the time, but I remember it well.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry.

I didn't know.
So, Harutsuge was the Kashi household's adopted child.

Despite this, I was making an unhappy face and strangely hanging onto the topic.

...I should be ashamed of myself.

Harutsuge: Don't worry about it. Yes, I was shocked at the time, but the father and mother who adopted me were really good people. It's called "too long ago to worry."

Sasamaru: But...

Harutsuge: I was soothed, Sasamaru-kun. They both took a very long time and healed me. They accepted me as a real family.

Harutsuge: Otherwise, I wouldn't be talking like this. For me, this is already "the past."

Sasamaru: Of course.

Honestly, I'm envious of Harutsuge, able to speak this out.

I'm sure a lot happened between Harutsuge and the parents who adopted her. Things someone like me cannot ever fathom.

I can still...
feel myself being bound by that home.

This difference is huge.

I'm sure this is the difference in humanity between me, who can never catch up with everyone, and Harutsuge, our elder sister.

Harutsuge: I should apologize instead. I've been hiding this from everyone all this time.

Sasamaru: Well...

Yes, it's a bit lonesome, but...

Sasamaru: ...the one who should decide that is you, Harutsuge.

This isn't something you should open up in its entirety.
I'll absolutely hear her out if she says, "listen to me," or, "give me advice."

I'll do anything I can.

But this isn't something to ask about by force.

Harutsuge: My father...aah, not the one who raised me, the real one. He was a perfectionist. He was displeased with me, whom he thought was a man but disappointed him.

Sasamaru: What's...that about?

Harutsuge: It's just as I said. He was a "perfectionist." A perfectionist loses his patience when things don't go as expected.

Sasamaru: That's not a perfectionist! That's a...!

I speak this and somehow restrain myself.

Because these words that I was about to say belong to the worst type, ones that I'd never normally say.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

I bite my lips and apologize.

Regardless of the individual, he's Harutsuge's real father.

Despite this, I, an outsider, was about to say cruel words.
This can't happen.

Harutsuge: I just said, Sasamaru-kun. It's all in the past. I don't mind.

Harutsuge: I hated my name once. Honestly, I thought about changing it.

Harutsuge: But this is already my name. I'm "Harutsuge," including the fact my real father called me so.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Also, thanks...for getting angry for my sake.

There's no faltering in Harutsuge, saying this with a smile.

Harutsuge: Well, such was my father. My real father...wanted to make it as if I never existed.

Sasamaru: ...Yeah.

...Dammit, dammit.

Dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit.

Harutsuge: Sorry for the weird topic.

Sasamaru: No, me too. I'm sorry.

In the end, the conversation went in an unforeseen direction, and we returned to the dorm.

Though, we haven't reached a conclusion.
How will we explain it to everyone?

Harutsuge: Well, just take the chance.

Then, we speak the details to Hiyo and Araragi, who are in the living room.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: ...

Regarding the suggestion that we need some sort of guide to maintain our everyday rhythm, they have no objections.

However...

Araragi: May I...read it one more time?

Again, Araragi flips through the student council issue manual.

No matter how many times she reads, she has an "I can't believe this" expression.
It's understandable.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo has the same reaction.

Sasamaru: Yes, its contents are a joke, but we don't need to take it so seriously. Our topic is that everyday life is surprisingly hard without a standard.

Hiyo: I...will follow it if you two so decided.

Sasamaru: R-really?

Hiyo: Yes. After all, it's what you and Harutsuge-san are saying.

This is what she's saying, but Hiyo would say the same thing if Araragi were in my place.

Harutsuge: Well, Hiyo-kun is in the supporting party the moment Sasamaru-kun supports it.

Sasamaru: What did you hear just now? She said that it's because you and I said it.

Harutsuge: That's the problem. I don't want to think about a Hiyo-kun who obeys me. I want her to blame me more and more.

Sasamaru: What a bothersome woman.

Well, leaving Hiyo aside...
I wonder about Araragi.

Araragi: Yup, I don't mind either.

There's no need to worry. Araragi doesn't disturb the harmony.

Sasamaru: But its contents are such. It's almost a joke, but try to think carefully about it.

Harutsuge: You're contradicting what you just said.

Sasamaru: Well, when everyone easily agrees, it's instead...

I feel like I'm taking advantage of their honesty.

Araragi: It's just while the school is closed, right? It'll be fine.

Sasamaru: Okay, thanks.

I feel at ease after being told this.

Yes, it's just for now.

It's dragging on a bit more than we thought, but the school might return to normal tomorrow.

Sasamaru: Then, we will spend our days following this manual for a while, all right?

Everyone nods.

And thus, we start our new every day that should soon end.

At night.

Again, I'm thinking about the intention of that manual.

Sasamaru: (The name.)

After thinking again about "what is a name?" I get stuck deeper and deeper.

I wonder if it's because I learned about the origin of Harutsuge's name.

I don't have that experience because my name was decided irresponsibly, but each person's name has their story and origin.

Hiyo: Oh, honey.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo, who appears to be heading to the bedroom, calls out to me.

Sasamaru: (I wonder...about Hiyo.)

Unexpectedly, this question crosses my mind.

Sasamaru: Hey, Hiyo. Do you know the origin of your name?

Hiyo: Why are you asking that out of nowhere?

Sasamaru: Well...I was thinking, "I wonder what a name is."

Hiyo: Is it about what's written in that manual?

Sasamaru: Well...kinda, at first.

Hiyo: ...

Then, Hiyo sits down...
and says this.

Hiyo: It was my father who gave me the name "Hiyo."

Her father.

Her godparent too was her father.

Hiyo: And father said something strange.

Sasamaru: Something strange?

Hiyo: Yes. Once, I was bothered by the origin of my name and asked my father. He tried to dodge it at first, but it's my name, after all. The more he avoided, the more it bothered me.

Hiyo: And what my father said after finally giving up...was a bit peculiar.

Hiyo: When my mother knew she was pregnant, my father thought about names for both a boy and a girl.

Hiyo: Although...curiously, the names he thought were the same.

Sasamaru: {\i1}Were the same?{\i0}

Hiyo: Yes. Thinking about the name for a boy and for a girl, both ended up being the same. Even after thinking over and over, he could only come up with the same name.

Sasamaru: What a...curious story.

Hiyo: Yes. My father said, "it's almost like some will is at work." However, my father is a doctor. He won't easily accept such a supernatural phenomenon.

Hiyo: So, my father said, "I tried resisting."

Sasamaru: Tried...resisting?

I again tilt my head at another curious expression.

Hiyo: Yes. When he thought of the name of the child about to be born, this name that came to his mind...was a Japanese character.

Sasamaru: Aah. In short, "Hiyo" is...

Hiyo: Yes. It's proof of my father's resistance. He simply "decided with another reading."

So, that's why Hiyo's name doesn't have difficult Japanese characters.
Maybe not when changing an old character for a new one, but the meaning changes when you switch one character for another.

It's a truly curious story, but...
somehow, I can picture the face of her father while doing that.

But...I get it.
As I thought, each person has their own episodes with their names.

Hiyo: Honey?

Looking at me, probably making a strange face, Hiyo tilts her head a little.

Sasamaru: Ah, well, it's kinda...

Yes, I can say it honestly, without gloomy feelings.

Sasamaru: ...I was thinking...how nice.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry there.

Hiyo: Honey, I like your name very much.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: It calms me very much.

Sasamaru: C-calms you?

Hiyo: Yes. In difficult times, I mysteriously gather courage simply by muttering your name.

Sasamaru: Ah...ha ha, well, umm, thanks.

Jeez, Hiyo is really good at being considerate.

Hiyo: Oh, I'm not joking, you hear?

Sasamaru: O-okay. Ha ha.

Hiyo: Hehe. I wonder why.

Harutsuge: "I wonder why."

Araragi: "I wonder why."

Harutsuge: I wonder why Sasamaru-kun doesn't realize, even after being told that.

Araragi: Wait, what are we doing?

Harutsuge: Peeping.

Araragi: Since when? And what for?

Harutsuge: Since they started talking about names. And the reason, well, for I want to peep.

Araragi: Thank you very much for the smooth answer.

Harutsuge: Yes. My pleasure.

Sasamaru: Ha ha...thanks.

Though, I know this is just a nickname.

Regardless of the origin of the name, I feel happy after being told that with straight eyes.

Sasamaru: (Happy?)

I wonder why. I shouldn't like this name, but...

...maybe no one feels bad when being complimented.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

For one moment, I grasp something.

Hiyo's name came from a curious event of her father.

Of course, that story was just a joke. He really must have thought very hard about it.

I don't know because I've never met him, but I'm sure Hiyo's father is a shy person.
He promptly dodged it with that joke after being pressed by his daughter.

It's surely a reason so embarrassing that he can't say, a reason kind enough that makes him embarrassed.

It's surely a name filled with high expectations and hopes.

To his lovely, dear, and beloved child, the apple of his eye.
With just a tiny bit of the parent's whim.

So, even someone like me thinks this when my name is praised, and I feel this much embarrassed and happy.

Sasamaru: (No.)

Harutsuge: I hated my name once. Honestly, I thought about changing it.

Harutsuge: But this is already my name. I'm "Harutsuge," including the fact my real father called me so.

...That's right.

That's what it means.

No matter how much I hate my name, no matter how much I drag the past, I am "Sasamaru" while including all this.

I've been shouldering this name all along.

That's why I'm happy.
I'm very happy that the name representing me is complimented.

A "name" means oneself.

Also, the "bonds" between those around and me.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you were very loved.

Hiyo: By my father?

Sasamaru: By everyone who raised you.

Hiyo: Everyone?

Sasamaru: Those around you, and not just your parents. It's because they protected you, because you received this effect little by little, that the present Hiyo exists.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I can tell by looking at you. You were very loved.

I myself can tell these words are very persuasive.

Hiyo: Hehe. Then, this means...by you too, honey.

Sasamaru: Me?

Hiyo: Because you too raised me, honey.

Sasamaru: I did?

Hiyo: Yes. Araragi-san and Harutsuge-san too. Everyone from the "Four Noble Ones" are like siblings to me.

Sasamaru: ...

So, she thinks of us like that.

Sasamaru: Well, that might be so.

Thanks.
I realize this thanks to Hiyo.

Sasamaru: I too like your name, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: I love it.

Hiyo: ...

And, in the same way she said to me, I too was raised by Hiyo.

I'm able to feel our bonds every time I speak her name.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, those letters where you kept our bonds alive. I was sending back letters every time I received one from you, but...

Sasamaru: Every time I wrote your name, I too gained courage.

Hiyo: You too...honey?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I had moved away, right? And without even explaining what happened.

Hiyo: Y-yes.

Perhaps everyone had vaguely noticed the situation.
But I ended up moving away without telling what happened.

Sasamaru: I already told this in the letters, but I ended up living in my aunt's house. My aunt was very good to me, but she was very uneasy that her every day had changed without any warning.

My aunt granted me a house for me to live in.
Granted me my room.
Granted me clothes.
My new life started in that very, very spacious house.

Aunt always seemed busy and not even once did we have a meal together, but...
she granted me the money called "living expenses."

A lot of money entered every month and, every time I felt grateful, my aunt said, "don't make us lose face."

I felt it was more than I deserved. I didn't use it and kept saving it up every month.

When I came to this school, I left almost all of it on the table together with a letter of gratitude, but...
I wonder if aunt took offense at it.

On the very day I was able to come to school, aunt was busy as I expected, and I couldn't see her.

Sasamaru: But every time I received your letters...every time I wrote letters to you, every time I wrote the name "Hiyo," I gained courage.

Seeing that I hadn't used my money, my aunt bought me clothes.

Saying, "stop wearing improper clothes," she let the house helper buy me clothes.

I left those too.
Even after she bought me many of those expensive clothes...I felt it was more than I deserved and didn't wear it.

When I was living in that house, I wore them while thinking it was for aunt's sake...and left it there thinking I wouldn't need it at this school's boarding system.

Several pairs of underwear, shirts, and the school's uniform.
Just this was enough.
Aunt gave me the money for this too.

What I bought with the "living expenses" aunt gave me were summer clothes I longed to wear, something unrelated to entering this school.
I still use it as a pajama.

I'm thinking of someday repaying this money when I start working.

Sasamaru: I could recall your face every time I wrote your name. In my new life, no matter how much my past every day faded away...Hiyo, to write your name was what reminded me of everyone.

...But, the truth is, I noticed it.

Aunt didn't care about me.

Sasamaru: That's why your name saved me. Before I realized, it was supporting me.

My aunt always neglected my father.
She hated that a relative was a "good-for-nothing."
She was worried that it might turn into a scandal.

Aunt was a member of congress.
She took custody of me because that incident happened.

The Suu household was famous in name only. It wouldn't be strange if the press comically wrote about it.
Publicly, it didn't even amount to an "incident."

But aunt thought about the worst case: if father's abuse eventually went public. Then, she thought about the fact that "I'm raising the pitiful child I took in" would become a "weapon."

Sasamaru: So, I love your name. Hiyo, your name kept granting me courage.

Still, it's a fact that aunt granted me a home.
Granted me clothes.
Granted me food.

Regardless of my aunt's purpose, I'm really grateful for her.

Sasamaru: Ah, that's right. I haven't told you this yet, right? I'm sorry. I didn't have a cellphone. I couldn't send any messages. Nowadays, letters are kinda bothersome, right?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: Why are you...crying, honey?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Having been told that, I put my hand at the corner of my eye...
and what drips into my finger is a tear.

Sasamaru: H-huh?

Why am I crying?

I'm happy, right?
It's a life I would never think about before, right?

I was finally released from my father and taken by my aunt.
But Hiyo's letters supported those confused days.

Despite this, why am I crying?
Am I an idiot?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: S-sorry. Something must be wrong with me.

In panic, I rub the corner of my eyes.

Hiyo: I too was supported by your name.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Every time you sent me letters...every time I received your letters, every time I wrote your name...

Hiyo: ...I was reminded of you and was able to live through my every day.

Sasamaru: Y...you're exaggerating, Hiyo.

Hiyo: It is not an exaggeration.

After receiving the words filled with Hiyo's strong will, I unintentionally think this.

Hiyo: Yes, I also wrote lies in the letters I sent you, but...

Sasamaru: You don't have to...

Hiyo: ...Still, it was not a lie that I was looking forward to the day when I could see you.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

That's what it meant.
The "name is a code" that was stated in the manual is, in short...

Hiyo: I...I...

Sasamaru: Thanks, Hiyo.

In short, maybe {\i1}it's a warning about thinking like this.{\i0}

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...Hey, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Araragi: I have some business to take care of.

Harutsuge: What a coincidence. Me too.

Araragi: Let's retreat, then.

Harutsuge: Yeah. Sorry for always making you accompany me, Araragi-kun.

After that, I head to the usual bedroom together with Hiyo and...

...for some reason, Harutsuge isn't here, and Araragi, who is always sound asleep at this hour, also isn't.

Sasamaru: What happened to those two?

Right after thinking this, I find a note on top of the futon.

It looks like it's Harutsuge's handwriting.

"We'll sleep in another room today. There's no special meaning to this, nor are we being thoughtful. It's really, REALLY nothing, please don't worry. -Harutsuge-"

She clearly wrote a deeply meaningful sentence.

By the way, there are tissues beside the pillow for some reason.

//subchapter
Sinner
November 12 (Thursday)
With You, Here and Now,

There's no longer...

...a world painted with ink.

Everything composing this world has a color, a weight.

There's even the sensation of air entering my lungs when I breathe.

It is a sensation exactly the same as the reality.

So real that even the concept of 'to live' is no more.

So, I notice.

This isn't a lucid dream.

A lucid dream is a state where "you realize you're inside a dream."

And it's said that it is possible to control a lucid dream.

To begin with, a dream is something your brain creates.

If you're conscious that "I'm dreaming," you think it's easy to control it.

However...

I realize this is a dream.

I'm aware this isn't the reality.

Despite this, I cannot control it.

I'm simply experiencing it as if following a fixed journey.

Simply watching, like looking at the actors—performing according to a finished script—from the audience.

It's simply shown to me.

Inside this dream, I'm a bystander.

I'm in fear.

In fear of my child's unworldly power.

The passing of time is fast indeed.

This is obvious, but my child grew.

The problem is that she grew very beautifully.

As a parent, I should be happy by this fact itself.

But the child {\i1}grew so beautifully as though she wasn't from this world.{\i0}

Regardless of what it is, people will pay attention if it is beautiful.

They will unconsciously stop and be entranced by the beauty.

This is something very natural and irresistible.

The son of this land's chief is also so.

It was something natural but, at the same time, unavoidable.

Anyone wants to have something beautiful as his own.

However, I can't help but be frightened.

{\i1}That{\i0} is not a human.

Unbelievably in love with her, the chief sent a servant holding an exorbitant amount of money.

The child is taken by him.

Taken, in a place unknown to us.

However, she is still at home.

What is taken is something with her shape, but not her.

...Is this the feat of a ghost?

The next day, the child is with the same face as yesterday.

As if {\i1}nothing had happened.{\i0}

As if it was just a joke.

As a result, we no longer can stay in this land.

This is our familiar place, but...perhaps I should call this fortunate. Both my parents had already passed away, and no one criticized this.

Although, I'm not completely helpless.

Where should I go?

At this moment, my child says this.

"To the capital."

I wonder if this is simply a yearning toward the capital, like any adult young girl.

I can't help but...feel there's a purpose in this.

But, without any other place to go, we move to the capital.

Life here isn't any easier than the one so far.

Until now, although we weren't rich, our life was far from poverty.

It wasn't difficult just to live our days.

My wife complained not even once.

My faithful wife is brave, just like before we got together.

And my daughter...

...I wonder what she is thinking.

She is an adult. And also has discernment.

Then, how is she feeling about life here?

No matter where we go, no matter how much the environment changes...

...there are ones who stop to see what is beautiful.

Again, my daughter is courted.

This time, it isn't the chief's son.

The other party is a {\i1}high class gentleman{\i0}.

At this moment, my surroundings become pitch dark.

{\i1}It's you.{\i0}

{\i1}It's you again.{\i0}

What the hell are you planning?

...No...it's different.

No, no, no, no, no.

My daughter would never do that.

My daughter would never do that.

My daughter would never do that.

Aah, of course. This can only be a coincidence.

You attract men's attention because you're very beautiful and lovable.

Yes. That's all there is to it.

There is a multitude of men courting you.

One of them is him by coincidence.

If you fancy him, just be with him.

...The next thing I know, my house is wet.

Like a dried-up dust cloth, like the throat of a person suffering during a drought.

My house that was filled with a "pain" similar to thirst.

And now, it's wet.

Filled with a moisture that isn't enough no matter how much I drink.

...Aah, my daughter.

Daughter.

My daughter.

Mydaughtermydaughtermydaughtermydaughtermydaughter.

Are you also trapped by the "pain"?

Were you caught by our house's "pain"? The pain that only I wasn't caught because I'm mediocre?

Is that why you chose a high class gentleman?

When I wake up, the world is blurred.

After noticing these are tears, I understand.

No, maybe I {\i1}had understood it all along.{\i0}

I simply didn't accept it.

It appears it's the remains of the dream.

I can easily return if I close my eyes.

Someone said it's a world painted with ink.

It's indeed a touchable dream.

Sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch.

The dream has all of these sensations.

So, this is not a dream.

(This is a...)

Yes, I...

I am not a bystander.

Simply watching, like looking at the actors—performing according to a finished script—from the audience.

It's simply shown to me.

But I am not a bystander.

(This is the past.)

Yes.

This is my "past"!!

The "husband" in question is me.

No wonder I couldn't {\i1}control it, despite realizing it was a dream.{\i0}

Because this is the past. It has already happened.

No wonder I felt as if I was {\i1}following a somewhat familiar scenery.{\i0}

This is a life experienced by myself.

The moment I'm aware of this...

...the landscape's "weight" becomes one with the reality's.

(But this is a...)

Although I'm aware that it's "my past," it's not "my" past.

A me that is not me.

I don't know if such a thing as previous life exists, but it's probably {\i1}this kind of thing.{\i0}

Then...

I know there's no meaning in a hypothetical story, but...

Then, at least, this isn't from the present era.

If this is my life that happened {\i1}someday{\i0} somewhere, and it's not the present era...

Then, when is it?

From the clothes, I think it's before modernization, but...

Maybe these are events in the countryside.

I don't have historical knowledge to see through it with thoroughly background research. Presently, I don't have enough information to easily distinguish with what I learned at school.

...I think.

Sasamaru: ...

I can feel it was based on my real experiences.

Sasamaru: (My...previous life?)

Sasamaru: *yawn*

On this day, what I encounter after waking up and heading to the living room is...

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: Congratulations, Sasamaru-kun. Die already.

Sasamaru: You're celebrating or cursing? Choose one! Also, what are you celebrating and cursing!?

Harutsuge: It's fine, don't play dumb. It's fine.

Sasamaru: H-huh?

Harutsuge is with a strange "I know" gentle eyes of a senior.
So disgusting.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. From today on, you have joined the adult group.

Harutsuge firmly places her hand on my shoulder.

...It hurts.

//text on screen
Tightly

It hurts.
It hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts.

Sasamaru: Ouchouchouch, wait. Why are you pressing my temples out of nowhere!?

Harutsuge: It's a blessing.

Sasamaru: And what kind of priest breaks the bridegroom's skull when matchmaking? Do it after reviewing the meaning of blessing.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: Wait, Araragi is blushing for no reason! What's this course of events first thing in the morning?

Hiyo: Good morning, everyone.

Araragi: Ah, Hiyo-chan.

Hiyo: ...? What is it? What is this strange air? And the gazes?

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: Y-yes?

Harutsuge: ...

For a while, Harutsuge makes different comic faces, one smiling with joy, one filled with anguish, etc.

Hiyo: Ha-Harutsuge-san?

Harutsuge: Oh, no...I can't come up with nice words.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, hang in there!

Harutsuge: Thanks, Araragi-kun. Aah, it's at times like these that I want to become a strong and gallant adult.

What's up with this skit? It's a bit interesting, though.

Harutsuge: Well...this is what I mean.

Harutsuge: Next time, teach me all you can, senpai. For future reference.

Hiyo: S-sure.

Harutsuge: In any case, congratulations.

Hiyo: T...thank you very much?

Harutsuge: Well, once the very day arrives, you really don't know what to say. Hahaha, how embarrassing.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Well...in any case, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Y-yes?

Harutsuge: You two are still young. There's much in store for you, but you must stay strong. You're no longer a single person.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, Harutsuge-chan. You're too way ahead.

Harutsuge: No, no. Sasamaru-kun is diligent. He might have already formulated that life plan. Or rather, formulate it at all costs.

Sasamaru: Umm, I can't see where this conversation is going.

Harutsuge: It's fine, it's fine. You don't have to play dumb.

Sasamaru: I'm extremely ashamed to say this when you're with a gentle face I've never seen before, but, umm, maybe you got something wrong.

Harutsuge: Hahaha...oops, my mistake. I still haven't done today's routine.

Harutsuge: Hahaha. Today, Hiyo-kun's futon might have a smell that's not hers...oops, was this a bit blunt? My apologies, my apologies.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Well, let's go, Araragi-kun.

Araragi: Hey, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Araragi: Hiyo-chan is acting strange.

Harutsuge: Hahaha. But she is different from usual. Because she...

And after saying this, Harutsuge's movements stop.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: What's the matter, Hiyo-kun? Are you so happy that you can't speak?

Hiyo: So, you...were looking.

Harutsuge: H...huh? Hiyo-kun?

Hiyo: Good...so, that's why...hmm, okay...hmm...

Harutsuge: Huh? W-wait. You're not supposed to get angr...

Hiyo: We didn't do it!!

Harutsuge: Eh?

Harutsuge's eyes become perfectly round.

And, with a creaking sound like a clockwork spring movement, she turns her head toward me.

Harutsuge: ...You didn't do it?

Sasamaru: Do what?

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge is with her mouth so wide open that her jaw might fall off.

Then, again with a creaking sound, Harutsuge's head returns to Hiyo.

And beyond her gaze is Hiyo, with eyes full of tears and a deep-red face.

Hiyo: ~~~~~~~~~

Harutsuge: Ha, haha, hahaha...

Hiyo: Ha-ru-tsu-ge-sa...

Harutsuge: Hey, you midget! Impotent! I'll cut off that {\i1}thing{\i0} that's useless at the most important time! Fix that right now!

Sasamaru: Me!?

Harutsuge: Taste my hidden blade, "Plum Drill"!!

Sasamaru: WAAAAAAAAIIIITT!

Hiyo: HARUTSUGE-SAAAAAAAAN!!

Araragi: Err...well, yeah.

Araragi: Well, umm, err...those things happen too.

Araragi: Ah, I'll prepare the breakfast. I'll make a super delicious one. Wait right there.

And after exactly two minutes...

After I hear an explosion sound from the direction of the kitchen, my 5-letter special part, which starts with the 16th letter of the alphabet, is about to get cut off.

Sasamaru: Wait, wait, wait! There was an explosion just now!

Harutsuge: It's just Araragi-kun making sunny-side-up fried eggs. Doesn't she always do that?

Sasamaru: Why is the kitchen exploding to make a simple sunny-side-up egg!? Is that a cliché skit!?

Harutsuge: Farewell, Sasamaru matsutake.

Sasamaru: Wait, wait a minute, don't be hasty, reconsideeeeeerrr the matsutake mushroom, called the king of scents, requires attention since the amino acids change, turning it into a poisonous mushroom when it becomes oldoldod.

Hiyo: HAAARUUUTSUUUGEEE-SAAAAAN!

Harutsuge: EEEEEKKK!!

The moment my life, my genital is about to be cut off by the grim reaper, Hiyo catches Harutsuge.

Hiyo: IT'S PUNISHMENT TIME!

Harutsuge: Wait a minute? What is that? What are you holding?

Sasamaru: Phew. That was close.

Harutsuge: Hey, why are you so calm, Sasamaru-kun? Help me.

Sasamaru: Eh, what should I do?

Harutsuge: Y-you're the miscellaneous knowledge king, right? Don't you have something?

Sasamaru: You're being unreasonable.

Harutsuge: Ah, do that! Kindly whisper words of love to Hiyo-kun. With this, she will surely sto...

Hiyo: Well, let's take our sweet time.

Harutsuge: Sa-Sa-Sa-Sasamaru-tan, Sasamaru-tan, Sasamaru-tan.

Sasamaru: I got it! Hiyo!

Hiyo: It's all right. It hurts only at the start.

Sasamaru: What's the official name of the "Tawantinsuyu" nation? There, Hiyo.

Hiyo: The Inca Empire. Well, sing with that cute voice of yours, my little bird.

Sasamaru: Then, what's the name of its first emperor!?

Hiyo: Man...err, umm, well...

Hiyo: W-what was I doing...?

Sasamaru: Phew...close call.

Harutsuge: That's the worst stopping measure, all right.

Sasamaru: I saved you. Stop complaining.

Araragi: Okay, it's done.

Harutsuge: Oh, Araragi-kun. Did the bottom of the frying pan fall off? There's a black lump on the plate.

Araragi: It's delicious.

Harutsuge: And you get a prize if you can discover where the yolk is in this.

Araragi: And what's the name of the first emperor? What is it?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun will tell us. Tonight, in the futon.

After that, we finished the (seemingly) breakfast and spent time as we saw fit, but...

Jin: Oh.

Sasamaru: Hey.

Just like the other day, at the gate, I encounter Jin Reiji, who's returning to his dormitory.

Jin: I believe you already understand, but refrain from obstructing my pursuit of pleasure.

Sasamaru: ...It's fine, really. You don't have to phrase it like that.

The truth is, I heard this from Harutsuge.

He "dares turn himself into a target in order to decrease the victims."

This is his own "way of protecting the school."

Jin: ...

Sasamaru: I heard this from Araragi. The white team's guys haven't done anything weird recently.

Jin: ...

Jin Reiji swiftly adjusts his glasses.

Jin: I must express my gratitude to you all, then.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Jin: I do not know what happened with the white team gentlemen, but...I haven't yet expressed my gratitude to you regarding this matter.

He straightens his posture and...

Jin: Suu Sasamaru-san. Thank you very much.

...deeply lowers his head.

Sasamaru: S-stop that. I haven't done anything.

Jin: It is your choice to think so. In the same way, it is my choice to express my gratitude.

Now he got me. He's one step ahead.

Jin: Are Yumeno-san and Kashi-san here?

Sasamaru: I think they'll say the same thing, though.

Jin: That is also their choice.

Good heavens.

Jin: ...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Jin: There is a matter I want to inquire about. What is your relationship with Kashi-san?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge and I?

Jin: Ah...no, please forget I said anything.

Sasamaru: ...

Jin: I will thank them on a later day. Excuse my rudeness.

With his slender body, Jin Reiji takes his leave with a firm attitude.

While thinking that he's a splendid individual, I...

Sasamaru: (Maybe...he likes Harutsuge.)

...think this.

Hiyo: Jeez...Harutsuge-san.

Despite being in a huff, Hiyo walks with a somewhat not-so-displeased face.

She is walking {\i1}as if being enticed.{\i0}

For some reason, the place she heads to is...
the place once called "sea of withered trees."

This place that should now be called "sea of red leaves" instead of "sea of withered trees" is, for Hiyo, the most suitable place to warn herself.

For this is the place to finally speak out the sin of having lied for several years about the most important existence to her.

Hiyo: (The place honey made an oath.)

The place where he engraved the morning-color pledge.

That's why this became the most suitable place to calm down her feelings.

And also became the place to make mysterious feelings rise in her.

Aah.

Hiyo: {\i1}(Again.){\i0}

When was it that she started hallucinating about this curious scene?

A world painted with ink.

One day, this became a colored world.

And every time, it makes one feel that {\i1}it's not a daydream at all.{\i0}

She is not able to believe in a thing without proof such as "destiny," but...

...No, let's rephrase it.

She is obstinately convinced that she is "a woman who is not able to believe in destiny."

But what on earth is this if not "destiny"?

She realized.

She realized what this ink-colored world is.

Every time it is repeated...the more it is colored and sensed, she can't help but notice it.

{\i1}This{\i0} itself is something very unbelievable for her, but...

Even after denying with her head, a soft spot she hasn't noticed easily accepts this truth.

That's why...

{\i1}She understood.{\i0}

Aah.

Of course.

{\i1}So, that's how it is.{\i0}

Hiyo: ...

Out of nowhere, the violent sounds of the falling rain are wiping out all the noises.

And the quieter it becomes, the more she has to look straight at her own feelings, even if she doesn't want to.

...She realizes.

Hiyo approaches a nearby tree and touches its leaves.

It should be artificial, but it's a vivid red leaf as if it was growing.

Hiyo: Aah.

{\i1}It is growing.{\i0}

{\i1}It is really growing from the trees.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...There was a lonely person there.

Sasamaru: This person too had dear friends. Just like me, forming four dear friends. Despite this, this person is now alone...

Sasamaru: Therefore, we all from the red team cooperated to bring this person here.

Sasamaru: Everyone, please. Befriends this person. Please accept this person.

Sasamaru: I came to this Yumemidori Academy to study arts.

Sasamaru: I was able to hold onto my dream because of that day. I discovered something I "want to do."

Sasamaru: So, I could think of only one project to make with Hiyo, Araragi, and Harutsuge.

...She cannot say it.

She can never say it.

How on earth can she say this?

Hiyo: (Honey must not ever know this.)

Must never know.

This is because she knows Suu Sasamaru.
And because she thinks about Suu Sasamaru.

Hiyo: (But, I'm relieved.)

Yes, she is "relieved."

She thinks so.
From the bottom of her heart.

She thinks, "I'm relieved that I'm the one who noticed this."

"I'm relieved that I noticed it before Suu Sasamaru."

Hiyo: (Yes, I still can......!)

Sasamaru: ...Eh?

It is very sudden.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: No way...y-you're joking, right?

Sasamaru: Are you really...saying that, Hiyo?

Still unable to hide my bewilderment, I ask as if imploring.

Hiyo: Yes.

But Hiyo affirms as if declaring it.

Hiyo: The "illness" now spreading inside this school...

Hiyo: ...this is all my fault.

Araragi: W-why? Why is it so?

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. Could you tell us the reason?

Hiyo: It's exactly as everyone spoke the other day.

Araragi: B-but you said that's not true.

Hiyo: I'm sorry.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan! You're joking, right? Please tell it's a joke!

Hiyo: I am very sorry. I got scared of the size of the situation and kept lying to you all for my own safety.

Araragi: No way. Hiyo-chan, you don't lie like that!

Hiyo: My apologies.

Araragi: ...Hiyo-chan...

Hiyo: It is all my fault that everyone is suffering from the illness. I am really and truly sorry.

The place falls silent after these words, said as if summing it up.

Silence.

The silence I felt somewhere.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

When I finally let out my voice...

...I notice that Hiyo greatly trembles.

Hiyo: ...Yes.

Sasamaru: If that's an illness just like everyone said, is there a cure? It doesn't have to be a medication. Do you know of a treatment?

Hiyo: Eh...

Sasamaru: How about it?

Hiyo: I d...do not know.

Sasamaru: Okay. Do you know of any other means? Anything is fine.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Could you tell me this?

Hiyo: My apologies.

Sasamaru: Got it.

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: ...Why...aren't you criticizing me?

Sasamaru: Criticize?

Hiyo: B-but...it's my fault that everyone is...despite this, why...

Sasamaru: You're making the most heart-breaking face of all.

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: With that face, how should I criticize you?

Silence.

The silence I felt somewhere.

At that time, I was able to feel a warm feeling even inside that silence because Hiyo was beside me.

Despite being something that I did, she stayed together with me while saying, "it's my fault that I couldn't stop it."

Hiyo: I first thought of telling this...to you all. Now, I'll go tell this to the rest of the students...

Sasamaru: Don't do it!

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: Don't...do that. Everyone has finally calmed down. You should know what will happen if...they get provoked.

I recall everyone's panic at that time.

Hiyo: But...

Sasamaru: Besides, what can we do after finding the cause? Hiyo, you said now that there are no means.

Hiyo: ...Well...

Sasamaru: Everyone was searching for something to vent their irritation, exactly because "nothing could be done." If there were a solution, maybe. But we'll gain nothing from speaking out under this situation.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Isn't that right?

Hiyo: Are you telling me to...hide it?

Sasamaru: You can't agree with this?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Got it, Hiyo.

Sasamaru: If you cannot agree to this...then at least say that I did it.

Hiyo: H-honey!

Sasamaru: This isn't lip service. This is my selfish request.

Sasamaru: If you're going to turn yourself into the target, I'd rather become it instead. This is my selfish request.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I beg you, Hiyo.

Hiyo is taken aback.

And, for some reason, with a face of "there would be no meaning like that."

Araragi: All right, everyone! Let's pinky promise!

Hiyo: Eh?

Araragi: Okay, everyone? We'll forget everything we heard here.

Hiyo: A-Araragi-san.

Araragi: Sorry, Hiyo-chan. And you even gathered courage to tell us that.

Harutsuge: Approved.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: W-why...are you all...

Sasamaru: Stop that, Hiyo.

Sasamaru: We are the "Four Noble Ones," aren't we?

Araragi says to "wear a ribbon."
"We won't forget with this."

Harutsuge and I say, "approved," at the same time.

We tie a ribbon on each other's little fingers.
Then, we make the "promise."

Araragi: Pinky promise...

Harutsuge: ...if you tell a lie...

Sasamaru: ...you'll swallow a thousand needles.

The three: It's a promise!

It's a promise.

Our promise.

A promise of only us.

We don't know anything.

Don't know anything.

//subchapter
Two Roads
November 13 (Friday)
With You, Here and Now,

"It's all right."

I keep telling myself this.

Sasamaru: (It's all right.)

This is not repaying the favor.

I must not think this is to repay all the favors I've received from Hiyo until now.

This is simply proof that we are friends.

It's what we should do as the "Four Noble Ones."

Harutsuge: ...And that's why I think we all should go to school today.

I'm not sure about the "and that's why" part, but Harutsuge suddenly proposes this in the morning.

Sasamaru: Now that's abrupt.

Harutsuge: No, this was written in the manual.

Peeking into the manual, this is written in it.

"Now, the people around, centered in your every day...a place where everyone gathers and spends most of their day. Be aware this is merely a gathering place."

Sasamaru: ...Very well.

"Now, the people around, centered in your every day" must mean the changes in the environment called "people around" after you change years or graduate, even if they're very close friends.

That's why "now" is written.

Even if your old friends haven't changed, the people around your every day will change depending on the environment at each occasion.

"A place where everyone gathers and spends most of their day."

In our case, this is the school.
Specially the classroom.

Summing up, if we interpret this entry and apply it to us, it's the "classroom we, from the red team, gather and spend most of our day."

After that uproar, our every day is shifting to the dorms, but...this is just temporarily.
Since we are students, the "place where we spend most of our day" must be the classroom.

And also, "be aware this is merely a gathering place."

Just like the first "the name is a code," it means to change our perception.

Araragi: Yes, we can only accomplish this if we go to school.

Harutsuge: Well, that's how it is. I'm counting on you, everyone.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo, let's go.

Hiyo: Y-yes.

And when we're on our way to school...

Sasamaru: Ah.

Aone: Eh?

...we bump into Aone.

Sasamaru: Good morning.

Aone: Y-you pervert!

Thank you very much for the marvelous morning greeting.
Wait, you're still with that?

Sasamaru: Aone, you're with the school bag. Are you perhaps going to school?

And she's in her uniform.
She always wore her uniform when going to school.

Aone: This might sound strange, but when I don't have to go to school, I get impatient instead. It's like my everyday rhythm has been disturbed or something.

Aone: Though, I was a bit surprised that many students were still going too.

I guess there are many people who thought the same as Harutsuge.

I kinda have this boastful feeling, as if I might reflexively say, "Harutsuge noticed that a long time ago."

We arrive at the school and head to the classroom as always.

It feels like it has been a while.
Although not many days have passed, I feel it like a place from long ago.

Harutsuge: To feel like something from long ago despite not many days having passed is proof of our attachment...or so I heard.

Harutsuge says this as if she was seeing through my heart.

No, she might have felt this too.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Araragi: The manual, the manual.

Harutsuge: Ah.

After Harutsuge lets out a voice of "oh, no," I too let out an "ah."

Araragi: It's kinda sad. Maybe I mustn't think this.

Sasamaru: ...

It's this manual.

Harutsuge: Well, let's check out the rest of the manual.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

We again open the book.

"The name is a code" and "be aware this is merely a gathering place." And the next one in the student council manual is...

"Throw away everything you always have with you."

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Well, Sasamaru-kun. Clothes off.

Sasamaru: Wait, Harutsuge. I knew you would say that, but wait.

Harutsuge: So, you're saying that we should strip first.

Sasamaru: No, no. I think this doesn't mean something so direct.

Harutsuge: Your point?

Sasamaru: For example...

I place my hand on a place of my body.

Sasamaru: Aside from clothes, there's something else that's always on us.

I take out the wallet from inside my trouser's pocket.

Harutsuge: ...In short, I should throw away my money?

Sasamaru: Not that. Maybe it's not something direct like that.

Harutsuge: No idea what you said.
 
Sasamaru: Harutsuge, do you have something that's always on you?

Harutsuge: Like this evident and overflowing grace?

Sasamaru: No, also not that.

Harutsuge: Hmm...and I don't like wristwatches.

Araragi: What about cellphones?

Harutsuge: But we can't use it here. It's always stored away.

Hiyo: Summing up...

Hiyo, who was silent the whole time, opens her mouth.

Hiyo: His example is not the wallet itself. It's what is in it that we are always carrying. Isn't that right?

Sasamaru: Exactly.

That's our Hiyo.

Harutsuge: But isn't that the money?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, is there anything else inside your wallet aside from money?

Harutsuge: A gold card.

What Harutsuge takes out after saying this is the local store's membership card that I too know.

Sasamaru: It's not that. Anything else?

Harutsuge: Yeah. There's the amulet my parents gave me when I got accepted at this school.

Sasamaru: It's that!

It's only vaguely, but...
I'm starting to understand the purpose of this manual.

Harutsuge: ...I should throw this away?

Harutsuge is with a troubled face.

Sasamaru: You don't have to throw it away. I think you should put it away if you were always carrying it with you.

Harutsuge: Well, I really was the one who said it. I'll do it if I have to.

Harutsuge takes out the amulet from her wallet.

I continue. It was I who chose the student council manual.

I...
Yes, I have "that" in my wallet.

A ring I made in the manual arts class in my childhood.

Following the class teacher's words of "use something you like as the motif," I represented the sun in my childish way.

Because this was also used when we were "playing house" in our childhood, I've always kept it with me.

Everyone might have forgotten, but this is a treasure for me.

I take it out and put it on the desk.

After looking at it, Araragi makes an odd expression.
Looking at Hiyo, who's checking her belongings to see if there's anything relevant, Araragi starts doing the same.

Harutsuge: Hmm? What's that sound?

Then, Harutsuge suddenly starts looking around restlessly.

Sasamaru: A sound?

Yes, I can hear a sound after I strain my ears.

Somewhat...
crumbling.

Araragi: Ah, it's the school broadcast.

She's right.
It's the phenomenon that occurs after you turn on a microphone, and it picks up the sounds around it.

For example, a person unfamiliar with broadcasting devices is trying to use the school broadcast.
They got in panic and the microphone picked up the sound of touching it.

Jin: Everyone.

Then, a sudden broadcast starts.
I remember this voice.

Harutsuge: I know this voice.

It appears Harutsuge noticed too.

Jin: I am Jin Reiji from the black team. Everyone, there is something I want to say.

Jin: Several days have passed since the school closed. I believe everyone is feeling anxious at these uncommon days.

Jin: Therefore, I have a proposal for you all. On a time like this one, how about deciding on a "rule"?

A "rule"?
Everyone reacts at this word.

Jin: I do not mind if only those in favor come. I will carry out an explanation about this. Could you please gather at the gymnasium?

Then, the broadcast stops.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

We look at each other and...

...start moving toward the gymnasium.

Surprisingly, many students have gathered from his call-out.

It appears the number of students coming to school is surprisingly large.

Looks like they called even the students who remained at the dormitories.
I can say that almost all the students are gathered at the gymnasium.

Sasamaru: (It's the first time we come here...since that.)

I have bad memories of this gymnasium.
Everyone's expressions are somewhat gloomy.

They all must be feeling anxious about these days, without a guide and simply waiting.

"A single thread suspending at this time."
I wonder if Jin Reiji's proposal is reflected in their eyes as such.

Nakarai: Tch. Frigging calling us like he owns the place.

Among them, there's a familiar face cursing him.

Nakarai: Ah!

After looking at him, our eyes reflexively meet.

Nakarai: Hehe, hehe, hehehehe.

At this moment, he makes a menial smile, as if examining our mood.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

My fist gradually starts hurting.

Although not speaking out loud, they too must be anxious at this situation.

It appears everyone from the white team is here.

Jin: Everyone, thank you very much for having gathered here.

After listening to a voice resounding in the gymnasium...
everyone focuses their attentions there.

Jin Reiji is on the stage.

Jin: Without delay, I will explain the "rule" I conveyed through the broadcast not long ago.

We too came here because we were curious about that proposal.

For I think that his proposal...
that his "rule" is probably the same one Harutsuge proposed.

Just like Aone, who "came to school" in order to distract her anxiety.

Just like many students also did without having been told to.

Thus, I think he arrived at the same conclusion as Harutsuge.

Jin: ...As such, I believe we require an element to guide our lives in this situation.

What he says is...

Harutsuge: ...

...as I thought, the exact same thing Harutsuge said.

Sasamaru: (That's Harutsuge for you.)

Harboring boastful feelings, I turn my ears to the voice on the stage.

Jin: Truth be told, "anything is fine." If it can become a guide to our everyday lives, anything is fine.

Jin: And I propose to use this manual as a model.

I remember seeing the manual he takes out.

Jin: This is a manual created while taking into account this school's location. It simply contains coping methods against dangers that occur in these mountains and evacuation measures during disasters.

It's the school issue manual.

He's attentively reading out loud the contents written in it.

Jin: And also other matters such as the everyday preparations. Pay attention to so-and-so, don't neglect so-and-so in your every day in case of an emergency.

Jin: Unfortunately, we are doing nothing that is written here.

After Jin Reiji says this with a smile, giggles appear from inside the gymnasium.

Jin: So, how about using this as our "textbook"?

Jin: You might think this is absurd. You might think it won't help by following this manual. In fact, what is written here are serious topics that we normally pay no heed to.

Jin: However, don't we now need "something like this"?

A solution hasn't been presented.
But I wonder if everyone also felt "this."

Feelings of "lack of composure."
Anyone feels it's easier to walk on a path someone else showed.

Feelings of insisting on "no, I'll decide my own way of life" might arise, but...
in this situation, everyone is feeling on their skin that this is simply a sentiment.

Yes.

As easy as, "after waking up in the morning, I'll wash my face."
Something like "I must do this" is necessary.

I may rephrase this as a "habit."

A habit, a simple "rule."
Because there's no game without rules.

Everything has a "how to."
There's also a "how to" in living.

When you "must go to school," feelings of resistance emerge.

When you "don't have to go to school for a while," you gladly accept the recess.

But a "recess" without anything binding it is not a "recess."
It is simply "freedom."

And "to be thrown into the freedom."

We are artists' aspirants.
We are filled with pride.
But we are still mere students.

We have too many "days when we can do anything."

Jin Reiji tells all this to everyone in his own words.

His proposal is magnificently accepted by everyone.

Hiyo: He's quite the figure.

Hiyo mutters just this.

Hiyo: That gentleman has the talent of an orator. He grasped everyone's heart in such a short time.

Sasamaru: I agree.

The speech accurately bringing everyone's desires to the fore is certainly due to his talent.

After Jin Reiji descends from the stage, students that seem to be from the same black team carry several cardboard boxes.

Jin: In fact, there are two manuals.

Now, he raises his voice without the microphone.

Jin: One is the manual the school issued. And the other one was issued by the student council. Everyone, please compare these two manuals.

The black team students distribute the two manuals to us.

Without delay, everyone examines the manuals, but...

...as expected, they display dubious reactions at the student council issue manual.

Jin: I believe you noticed, but the student council issue manual is full of nonsense.

Jin: I do not intend on speaking badly about the student council. It might have had some meaning when it was issued. Or it might have been made as a "passable" joke.

Jin: However, in these times of emergency, it is nothing more than imprudent. In a manner of speaking, it is an "evil book"!

An "evil book."
He strongly asserts this.

Jin: To follow the manual and create rules is for the sake of uniting everyone. For the sake of uniting and facing this situation. Therefore, such a thing cannot exist.

Jin: And I am thinking of disposing of this "evil book" together with everyone, as proof of everyone's determination and unity.

The students gathered at the gymnasium come here as if accompanying Jin Reiji.

After coming to a high ground overlooking the trees below, the leading Jin Reiji finally comes to a halt.
Matching him, everyone stops, too.

Jin: Let's do...this with it.

After tearing the student council issue manual to pieces, he throws it away toward the air.

The wind flowing through the empty sky carries off the pieces of paper.

Jin: Yes. Everyone too.

As urged, the students, one after another, tear off the manuals.

And, after throwing them away toward the air—following the acts of Jin Reiji—the wind again carries off the pieces of paper.

The large amount of pieces of paper dancing in the air suggests a somewhat magical snowy landscape.

Hiyo: That gentleman, he really is good.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: He could have ignored the "existence of another manual." But he dared to create an "evil."

Hiyo: Creating something to depreciate...something to hate and unite everyone's will is an effective method to unify a group. Therefore, the group can be entranced by the delusion called "I'm doing what is right."

Sasamaru: The so-called "mass psychology."

Harutsuge: Yes, it was a flashy performance. They'll be charmed by this.

Harutsuge mutters this while looking at the student council manual whirled up by the wind.

Hiyo: Yes. He's taking the role of creating the situation of "'disposing' of it with everyone."

Harutsuge: But his will of standing against this situation is splendid. And he's guiding everyone very well. You mean he has such talent.

Exactly.
He's extending a helping hand to everyone, who is trembling with anxiety.

There's someone approaching him.

Nakarai: H-hey.

Jin: What is the matter?

Nakarai: I kinda understand whatcha doing, but...why the hell you doing it?

Jin: "Why," you ask?

Nakarai: Your story makes sense. So well explained that even we understand it. But why go out of your way to do this?

Jin: I do not see your point.

Nakarai: I'm saying to frigging do it yourself! Why the hell did you tell us that!?

Jin: There is no meaning in that. This is everyone's school. Isn't it natural to talk to everyone when you have good intentions?

Nakarai: ...

After his reply, Nakarai makes an expression of confusion.

For a while, he appears to be agitated, as if he was at a loose end, but...
he eventually says this.

Really, in a barely audible voice.

Nakarai: ...Is our white team included in that "everyone"?

Jin: Of course. You are students from the Yumemidori Academy.

Nakarai: Y...yeah.

Then, Nakarai turns around and starts walking.

There's a girl looking at him with a smile.

Nakarai: W-what do you want!?

Araragi: Nothing really.

He's a splendid man.
I too think this, just like Harutsuge.

It's his smile.

He {\i1}approaches Nakarai with the same smile he shows to everyone.{\i0}

Jin Reiji's proposal might not be that big a deal.
But after actually putting it into action, he's supporting everyone's feelings.

I'm sure we would have participated in his proposal if Harutsuge hadn't proposed hers first.

Araragi: But...we can't tell them now.

Sasamaru: You're right.

We are already living our lives according to the "student council manual."

I think it's not surprising that everyone chose the "school manual."

I myself think I have a screw loose for having said that.

Sasamaru: (An intuition...no.)

Sasamaru: (Conviction? In any case, I thought, "there's no doubt this is it.")

Thinking logically, I don't have to ask anyone to know that this is "strange." But, for some reason, I thought it was "correct."

And thus, everyone in the school starts living while following the "school manual."

And only our red team follows the "student council manual."

//subchapter
The Divergent Landscape of Bifurcated Roads
November 20 (Friday)
With You, Here and Now,

A "student" can only be called a student when there's a schoolhouse.

If the schoolhouse disappears, the student can no longer continue to exist as a student.

Even soldiers can no longer be called a soldiers if their army is dismantled.

They are degraded into an existence that simply wears the "former" crown on their heads.
An existence which only exists after belonging to a place.

Then, in this situation where the school has ceased its functions, I wonder if a student can still be a student.

If asked, yes or no...

...the answer is yes.

Students can keep being students even if the schoolhouse, their foundation, disappears.
Because a student is a living being who studies.

Even without a place to learn, people can learn as long as they have the will for it.

And one who has learned knows about respect.
One cannot learn without feelings of respect and reverence toward the teaching.

Therefore, students honor regulations.
They obey the regulations in order to pay their respects.

Even if the pillar of regulations that is the schoolhouse ceases its functions...
No, exactly because it has ceased, the students now establish the regulations themselves.

In order to prove that they are "students."

Yes, for example...

Male Student A: You're frigging annoying! Die, you little shit!

Female Student A: W-what? You're not a person to say that.

Male Student A: You were always so damn irritating!

For example, even if the "discomfort's" true face is about to manifest itself.

Harutsuge: Looks like they're building their own unique community.

Araragi: There are many rules, too.

Most of the students united with Jin Reiji in the center.

Normal life hasn't changed so far.
But what they do after going to school is not to take classes. It's to put into practice the school issue manual.
And just that.

An every day when the "discomfort" gradually enlarges.

The "discomfort."

The true shape of this "discomfort" is...

Sasamaru: Self-satisfied with following piles and piles of worthless rules and enraptured with themselves. If they blindly believe they're being saved, this is no different from religion.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: Is it a "dogma"? Is the manual a bible? Ridiculous.

Harutsuge: ...Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Ah.

This is what happens if I relax a little.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Yes, the "discomfort's" true shape is starting to appear...

...by "speaking without thinking."

Araragi: H-how can you say that?

Harutsuge: An idiot is an idiot. There's no other word for her.

Just like the "discomfort" I felt that day.

Sasamaru: How do I say...it's like a badmouthed fairy has settled onto my tongue.

Harutsuge: A perfectly fitting phrase.

Araragi: That expression fits to a T.

These are days when we can do nothing but wait.

But if I had to say, it actually did "change" for the better.

Besides...

Hiyo: ...

Recently, Hiyo has become remarkably taciturn.

Hiyo: The "illness" now spreading inside this school...

Hiyo: ...this is all my fault.

Maybe that's why.
Maybe she thinks this is all her fault.

The fact she's wearing the school uniform is because of Harutsuge's passionate plea of "once in a while, just once in a while."

I'm sure Harutsuge is trying to cheer Hiyo up in her own way.
This is how she is.

Sasamaru: (Ah!)

I shake my head.

We had decided to "forget" about it.

Harutsuge said that because "Hiyo seemed without energy."
There's no other reason.

I look at the ribbon on my little finger.

The promise of this ribbon tied on my finger.
The promise of the "Four Noble Ones."

Sasamaru: (Yes. We won't blame Hiyo. We will never do this.)

As long as we have this "promise"...
this ribbon will warn our feelings every time.
The welling-up determination invigorates my body.

And at this moment...

Sasamaru: (...!)

I realize this trembling is of a completely different kind.

Sasamaru: (Wh...what am I saying?)

{\i1}Won't blame?{\i0} It's not that.

We promised to "forget."
Did you already forget the promise?
The premise is wrong.

Sasamaru: (Shit!)

I feel this despite not wanting to.

It is the monster called illness.
So, this is the "symptom" everyone was talking about.

A me different from usual.

So, I allowed its advance so much that I must actually experience this illness firsthand.

You kidding me?

Sasamaru: (Like hell I'll lose to some illness!)

We are the "Four Noble Ones."

If they united after establishing rules with Jin Reiji at the center, we too must hold close to each other.

Harutsuge: Yes, it might be the same as a religion if you look only at its structure. Just like we have until now believed in Abbess Harutsuge's "Mini☆Immoralism."

Sasamaru: I don't remember joining it.

Araragi: Or rather, you're aware it is "mini."

Our relationship, cracking jokes even in this situation, has saved our feelings so much.

Sasamaru: (But...)

But I start realizing something after coming here.

Araragi: We're really carefree, aren't we?

Harutsuge: That's not true, Araragi-kun. We are connected...in an exceedingly sexual meaning.

Araragi: I'm so glad I wasn't deeply moved halfway through those words. I'm so glad.

Harutsuge: Well, yes, we are carefree. Despite being in this situation.

Araragi: So, even now, we aren't feeling it as much as the other classes.

Harutsuge: That's true. It's like we're aware of the situation but aren't that serious about it.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Hmm? What's wrong, Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: So...you really think so?

Yes, the number of times we're feeling the discomfort has increased in our every day.

I even shudder after feeling that I'm not myself, like a while ago.

But comparing this to "that" the others are complaining about, I feel its severity is greatly different.

Everyone nods at my words.

I guess everyone is slightly feeling that it's "weird."

Araragi: But what does that mean? Is everyone simply exaggerating a little?

Harutsuge: That's not possible. If that were an act, they should immediately become actors and not artists.

I recall the events at the school gate.
Since then, everyone is with a significant sense of danger.

Despite being in high spirits from the Ayanashisai just before it, the "rumor" spread like fire on a field.

Sasamaru: Yes. Although we're experiencing it, I think we're not feeling as much sense of danger as everyone else. But I don't think everyone is exaggerating.

Sasamaru: As if our "that" was different from their "that."

Araragi: So, our symptoms are different from everyone's?

Harutsuge: I still resist in calling it an...illness, but there's no other way to call it. I don't mind in calling it "symptom" for convenience's sake. But it doesn't quite hit home when you say it's different.

Sasamaru: Yeah. If I had to say, a "difference in intensity" fits better.

Araragi: "Intensity"?

Sasamaru: Yes. If we put it in terms of illness, "it's a difference in aggravation degree."

Exactly.

What I felt was exactly this.

If we compare it to a cold, everyone has already aggravated, but we have just caught it.

Araragi: I wonder why.

Araragi speaks out a simple doubt.

Yes, why is it?
Did we get lucky?

Although, "only we four got lucky" isn't a coincidence nor anything.

It's an inevitability.

Then, there must be a reason that "only we have light symptoms."

Sasamaru: I wonder if there's a difference between us and the others.

Everyone starts pondering.

Illness. Let's say it is an "illness."
And that everyone in this school, without exception, has contracted this "illness."

Then, what's the difference between us and them?

It's Harutsuge who breaks the silence.

Harutsuge: I've been thinking.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Only our class is like a harem, every man's dream.

Sasamaru: If you really think that is relevant...Harutsuge, I'm extremely regretful to say this, but you should not participate in this conversation.

Harutsuge: You're too naive, Sasamaru-kun. Your harem is a bit different from the usual one. It's two beautiful girls and one manly girl. It's not strange if there was some unbelievable effect here.

Sasamaru: No idea what that interpretation is. Or rather, why do you try to bring your own position only in times like these?

Harutsuge: So, even you are saying I should enter the bundle of "woman of boobs only," correct?

Sasamaru: No, listen.

Harutsuge: I wonder why we're in an era when small breasts are status. I was born in the wrong era. Ptui.

Well, leaving the sulking elder sister aside...

Araragi: Hmmm. Maybe it was the...Ayanashisai.

Sasamaru: The Ayanashisai?

Araragi: Maybe because we won...or something. I can't think of any other reason.

Sasamaru: No, that's not possible.

I can affirm this.

Sasamaru: Even if we have some difference and this is related to the illness' progress, the Ayanashisai's victory cannot be a reason.

Araragi: But why?

Sasamaru: The victory is just a result. Of course, I was very happy to receive this result because of what we did, but this "act" itself is equal for everyone.

Sasamaru: Everyone worked hard. Not a single class was shoddy. So, the result of victory isn't a difference. It cannot be.

Harutsuge: That's simply your sentimentality. Ptui.

Sasamaru: You're still sulking, Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: But yes, the victory sounds fishy. And then, we arrive at how the teachers are doing.

Araragi: Ah, that's right. I was thinking only about the students.

Sasamaru: Hmmm...

Then, we start enumerating anything that could be a difference, but...

...all of them are lacking in decisiveness.

At this moment...

Hiyo: The manual...

Hiyo, who was silent this whole time, reservedly opens her mouth.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: The two manuals. We chose the student council issue, but everyone chose the school issue one.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Yes, that's clearly a difference.

We are the only ones who placed that joke of a manual in our every day.

Araragi: But it's just the other students who agreed to Jin-kun's proposal. The teachers haven't.

Hiyo: It's not because the other students "chose the school issue manual."

Hiyo: How about thinking it's because we "chose the student council manual"?

Araragi: Eh?

Hiyo: The school issue manual is just a manual. Whether we follow it or not, it has no effect on the illness' progress. If we assume this...

Hiyo: Then, there's no relation between the teachers, those who accepted the black team student's proposal, and those who didn't. It's the same condition as those who didn't follow the student council manual.

Araragi: Ah...you're right.

Sasamaru: So...you're saying that manual has the effect of suppressing the illness' progress?

That thing has?
I'm one to talk because I chose it, but I think this too.

Harutsuge: It is unbelievable, but that's the only difference I can think of.

Sasamaru: Well...that's true, but...

No matter how much we discussed after that, nothing that could be called a "difference" came up.

Sasamaru: Then, how about having everyone follow this manual?

Doubtful, I say this out loud.

Araragi: Ah, that's true!

Sasamaru: Honestly, I have my doubts if this has the power to suppress the illness...but it might really have an effect.

It's an unknown illness in the first place. The cure might be something unthinkable, too.

Sasamaru: Our only choice here is to wait anyway. Maybe we can help others a little?

Hiyo: But, honey.

Sasamaru: It might be just peace of mind. Maybe the manual has no effect, and the reason for the difference in progress might be in a place we're overlooking.

Sasamaru: But it's better than doing nothing.

Hiyo: But...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. Honestly, I thought of tearing the manual away when I first saw it.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: I thought it was some kind of joke. I was a bit worried with "should I be laughing now?" For a joke, it was lacking in good taste.

Harutsuge: And...now I can say this, but I doubted your sanity when you chose this manual.

Sasamaru: ...I too think so. But now...

Harutsuge: I'm not talking about that. Yes, now that we're here, having chosen this manual might have been correct as a result.

Harutsuge: I'm saying this fully aware you're claiming this in hindsight, and that you don't believe this manual suppresses the illness' progression.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Yes, it's better than doing nothing. And if this helps everyone, it's all smiles.

Sasamaru: Right? Then...

Harutsuge: Let me finish.

Harutsuge flatly says this.

Harutsuge: Let's say we go around and show this to everyone. Who will believe our story?

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: We'll become a laughingstock. Even if we don't, the earlier matter united most students. Did you forget that performance?

Yes, Jin Reiji tore away the student council manual in front of everyone.

Leaving aside the right or wrong of that ceremonial act, it's a fact that everyone hardened their everyday foundations with the "following the school issue manual" as a guide.

Even in this situation...
No, it's exactly because we're in this situation that my words will simply deny that act of unifying everyone.

Sasamaru: But it's a fact that its progress is slower with us. If we say this...

Harutsuge: And how are you going to prove it?

Sasamaru: Well...

Harutsuge: This is the same as a mental illness. Others have trouble seeing this "intensity."

Harutsuge: For example, depression. For the person themselves, it's serious, but others are prone to think it's "you're just spoiled" or "grow up already." It's difficult for an amateur to tell the difference.

Harutsuge: And the other way around is also true. "You're still stable," or, "have light symptoms." It's simply what the person themselves are saying. It's like a still-sick patient being under the impression they're fully healed.

Harutsuge: In addiction, we're in this situation. It's still weak among ourselves, but others won't lend us an ear so easily.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Bu...but Harutsuge-chan, you believed Sasamaru-chan, right?

Harutsuge: I was able to accept it because I know Sasamaru-kun's personality. This isn't something anyone can believe in, is it?

Araragi: My goodness. Did you just show off your trust in him?

Harutsuge: Oh...a-anyway, I'm saying that if we bring this manual to them and say, "it's effective," there will be no results. Isn't this what Hiyo-kun is worried about?

Hiyo: Yes. I'm sorry, honey.

Sasamaru: No...it's exactly as you say. I was hasty.

Araragi: But, to know it might have an effect and stay still is just...

Harutsuge: Don't get me wrong. I'm saying it's meaningless to {\i1}simply{\i0} bring it to them.

Araragi: Eh?

Harutsuge: We must think of a strategy.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Harutsuge: In short, we just have to make them follow this student council issue manual. Am I right?

Araragi: Ah, Harutsuge-chan is with an evil face.

Harutsuge: Hah hah hah.

Harutsuge: ...And that's what we'll do.

Nakarai: Wait, I have no idea about "what we'll do."

Harutsuge: I have a request to you all. Cooperate with us.

Nakarai: That's not a request. It's an order. I'll do it, though.

Harutsuge: Oh, aren't we honest today.

Nakarai: We're done with opposing the red team.

Harutsuge: Hmm. So, you finally succumbed to Hiyo-kun's charm.

Nakarai: Ah, just say we did that, then. Well, I do think Kumigami-san is a charming person.

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: Err?

Harutsuge: ...Sorry. Well, for everything.

Nakarai: No, we were in the wrong. Though, I'm not saying this is the reason we stopped opposing you all.

Nakarai: Well...your project at the Ayanashisai was, err, impressive. And we thought that what we were doing was so stupid.

Harutsuge: You guys.

Nakarai: Nng!

Harutsuge: What's wrong?

Nakarai: Ah...well, I dunno what this is. Guess I'm in bad shape recently. It hurts everywhere.

Harutsuge: Is it a cold?

Nakarai: I...wonder. It feels like a cold, or maybe not.

Harutsuge: ...

Nakarai: Ah. And what should we help with?

Harutsuge: Y-yeah. The request is...

Sasamaru: Thanks, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: About what?

Sasamaru: Well, about a while ago.

Harutsuge: Don't mind it. I know your feelings very well.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: No...it's nothing.

Harutsuge isn't saying it out loud because of our promise.

Yes.

When I stumbled upon the possibility of the student council manual "perhaps" holding the key, I felt like I had found hope.

Everyone following the student council manual, and suppressing the illness...and help arriving...

...then, maybe everyone would be relieved they were "saved" and not worry about "what the cause was."

And then...

And then, everyone wouldn't find out about Hiyo.

Harutsuge: ...Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: We forgot about it, right?

Sasamaru: Yeah. You're right.

Sasamaru: Ah, Aone.

Aone: Y-you pervert!

Sasamaru: Aah, I kinda wanted to talk with you without this much distance. It's so distant my voice might not reach you.

Aone: What pervert?

Sasamaru: When you start it with "what," I'm about to argue about what kind of pervert it is, but anyway. I have a request for you.

Aone: A request pervert?

Sasamaru: You feel like a character that adds "pervert" at the end of everything, but whatever. You all from the blue team approved the proposal of living while following the school manual, right?

Or rather, stop dragging that joke already.

Aone: Yes. I thought that what he said was extremely valid.

Sasamaru: Could you exchange that manual with this one?

Then, I speak the details so far to Aone.

Aone: ...

The expression Aone makes after I finish the story is a greatly perplexed one.

Of course, it's also because of the "we followed the student council manual and the illness is progressing slower with us," but she's most perplexed...

Aone: ...Are you really saying to follow this manual?

...after looking again at the student council manual and checking its contents.

Sasamaru: We ourselves can't believe it. But we're thinking that maybe this is the reason. So, we would be happy if everyone followed it and softened the illness.

Sasamaru: It's just a personal statement that our symptoms are lighter than everyone's. You just have to believe us.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: You...can't?

Aone: Fine.

Sasamaru: Eh!?

Aone: I'll try talking to the others in my class.

Sasamaru: You sure!?

Aone: Because you haven't changed one bit.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Aone: Recently, everyone's eyes are kinda weird...but yours haven't changed. They're sparkling...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: I-in any case! I'll talk about it in my class! Is that all!?

Sasamaru: Yeah! Thanks!

Aone: D-don't get the wrong idea! This is for the sake of everyone!

Sasamaru: Of course!

Aone: H-hmpf.

Sasamaru: Everyone, how was it?

Hiyo: My apologies. They didn't listen to me.

Araragi: And meeee too. They got angry. "Stop being weird."

Sasamaru: Right. Sorry for the odd request.

The truth is, me too.

Aone willingly accepted, but the results after she spoke to her classmates were just as expected.

Although, Aone herself said she'll change the manual for the student council one.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, what about you?

Harutsuge: My henchmen are working on it right now.

Araragi: As always, the brats' boss.

Harutsuge: What now? There will be no effect if a neat, cute, and secluded lady like myself says, "follow this book." But if those wastefully aggressive faces of the white team guys tell it, it might have a considerable effect.

Araragi: Ah, is that the "strategy" you said?

Harutsuge: Exactly. I call it the "Pretend-to-Extort-But-Actually-Help Plan."

Sasamaru: That name is too direct. Or rather, I feel Harutsuge alone would punch out more results than all of them together.

Harutsuge: And what's that supposed to mean, Sasamaru-kun?

After a while, the white team members return.

Nakarai: Sorry. It didn't...go quite as planned.

Harutsuge: Sure.

Sasamaru: ...

Nakarai: Everyone was so obstinate. A mere persuasion won't dent 'em.

Harutsuge: I don't blame you. They finally obtained a basis to feel at ease. Still, good work.

Nakarai: No, I wanted to be useful if possible. Sorry there.

Sasamaru: Hmpf. Worthless bunch. Once a trash, always a trash.

Nakarai: ...I have no words.

Sasamaru: Ah!

I wonder if it really was a misunderstanding.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry. I didn't mean it. I'm sorry.

I wonder if a simple piece of paper like that would have produced a change.

Sasamaru: (No, that's not true.)

I have feelings for believing this.

Whatever the circumstances may be, I always felt that our situation and theirs were too different.

We're able to think this because we're considerably calmer than everyone.

Sasamaru: (Then...that student council manual had some effect.)

Still, when I sometimes fall into this sensation where I'm not myself...

Sasamaru: (It {\i1}can only delay its progress.{\i0})

It doesn't "cure."
It simply "can delay."

I wonder if this is true.

//subchapter
Thickheadedness is a Sin
November 21 (Saturday)
With You, Here and Now,

On that day, when I was young, I only remember that Hiyo's words startled me.

Hiyo: Someday, I want to become like you, Suu-kun.

I unexpectedly panicked and shouted, "please stop!"

In those days, I was a bad kid who was separated from the good kids. I couldn't believe what she said.

Several years since then.
It's thanks to them that I'm able to be here now.

Everyone taught me that even I have value.

No, I'm still ways behind. I got a late start at life.

Still, they taught me, who was convinced that "I had no value," that "you're normal" and "you're the same as us."

They taught me about the "equal relationship" called "friends."

And, since that moment when I was able to believe in this...

...since that moment, I think that the "Sasa" finally became a "bamboo grass."

It can't become a "bamboo," but it was able to become a "Sasa."

That's why, now, I look back once more and think.

"At that time, I wonder what meaning her words had."

Today's a day off.

Although, the school is essentially closed, and this is a "day off that we decided."
Since this is to "prepare our days' rhythm," Harutsuge proposed that we should rest on the days off.

And this rest is about to end.

This is our dormitory's garden.

"Garden" is a word that also means "wide water's surface." Aware or not of this...
the water's surface is simply and quietly standing still, reflecting anyone who visits its wide bosom.

Hiyo: ...

Lately, Hiyo has become remarkably taciturn.

She's wearing the school's winter clothes today, too, but...
today is a day off that we decided. There's no need to wear it.

There's no way she doesn't know this.

For some reason, it's as if she was "receiving punishment."

"I committed a sin. If this eases it a little..."
I can almost hear these words.

She has always been helping me.

Isn't there something I can do?

Sasamaru: H-hey, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: Oh...

But clever words aren't coming out.

Sasamaru: ...The sunset...is beautiful, isn't it?

Hiyo: Yes.

The signal to return home is when the town starts being enveloped by the sunset.
This custom from my childhood has disappeared before I noticed.

When I realized, it had become merely one checkpoint of that single day.

Still, this habit hasn't completely faded. This nostalgic feeling arising when I see the sunset...
is like a graduation ceremony, or implicitly saying, "go home already."

All this is included in it.

Sasamaru: Hey, Hiyo. About a song that might play in times like these.

The usual signal.
The signal of Hiyo and I, from long ago.

Hiyo: This time...do you mean the evening? Or do you mean when a man and a woman are together, like us?

Aah, that's right. Hiyo isn't good with this "feel the vibe" thing.

But she joins me.

Sasamaru: How do I say...a song that makes me feel like in a graduation ceremony, or implicitly being told, "go home already."

Hiyo: Very well. The established song playing in those scenes is...

No, wait. This is too simple for Hiyo.

I should instead...

Sasamaru: What's the old story that song is based on? There, Hiyo.

Hiyo: It's the "fruits of diligent study" story told in China.

Very good.

This is the pastime we do since long ago when we two are alone.
She's reliable even in times like these.

I didn't know what to talk about with others. I could only talk about strangely biased topics. But this isn't something anyone can do.

I'm truly grateful for Hiyo.
I'm doing nothing but thanking her, but I still thank her.

She's a person who can keep up with these topics. So, I'm now able to talk with others without becoming taciturn.

Hiyo: Then, "fruits of diligent study" is whose old story? There, honey.

Harutsuge: ...Oh dear, that again.

Araragi: And we are peeping yet again.

Harutsuge: This is not peeping. It's "watching over."

Araragi: Do you call that "argumentative"?

Harutsuge: But when will that man realize "that chat's meaning"?

Araragi: Hmmmmm.

Sasamaru: "Chē Yìn."

I answer Hiyo's question.

Sasamaru: In China's Jin dynasty, the youngster Chē Yìn was so poor he couldn't even buy lamp oil. So, he put dozens of fireflies in a bag and used their lights to read books.

When I imagine the scene, I feel it is very magical.

Hiyo: Yes. It's a tale impossible to reproduce, truly like an old story.

Sasamaru: Eh...really?

Hiyo: Yes. You can't read books with the light of mere dozens of fireflies. According to a certain researcher, you can somehow read after placing two baskets on both sides with a thousand fireflies in each one.

Nice kill-joy, Hiyo. It's all spoiled now.

But I think Hiyo's face got a little brighter.

Hiyo: In addition, the sound of the wings of 2000 fireflies...

Sasamaru: Okay, story over. Everyone, back to your seats!

But, as always, Hiyo is exact with the facts, or maybe science-oriented.

Harutsuge: That idiot. He's probably jabbing inside his mind right now.

Harutsuge: Think about {\i1}why this chat is happening{\i0} in the first place. Shit, Sasamaru. Die already.

Araragi: It has been a long time since I heard that.

Harutsuge: Well, we were busy recently. I neglected my duty a little bit.

Araragi: So, that was a duty.

Harutsuge: But...jeez. Hiyo-kun isn't science-oriented as much as she speaks.

Araragi: She's too smart. It's like she has both ways of thinking, or maybe mixing them.

Harutsuge: I guess Hiyo-kun herself starts misunderstanding out of nowhere. It's all that man's fault for having an abundance of incomprehensible topics.

Araragi: And she became like that because she understood it halfway and desperately studied to be able to keep up with him.

Harutsuge: What an attentive love that is. She saved the valley.

Araragi: Indeed. We're no match for Hiyo-kun.

Harutsuge: But Sasamaru-kun is trying to cheer her up in his own way.

Araragi: Isn't there something we can do?

Harutsuge: What's the source of Hiyo-kun's energy?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan...right?

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: Let's do it.

Araragi: Let's.

A while after that.

After heading to the living room, in there is...

Harutsuge: Oh, if it isn't Sasamaru-kun.

I wonder why.
Harutsuge is simply in the living room, but...

...for some reason, I feel she was lying in wait for me.

Araragi: Ah, Sasamaru-chan.

And after entering the room, Araragi closes the sliding screen.

I wonder why.
Araragi simply closed the sliding screen after entering, but...

...why do I feel that "my retreat has been cut off"?

Harutsuge: You don't have to keep standing. How about sitting down?

Sasamaru: O-okay.

It's natural.
Truly natural movements.

Despite this, why do I think that "I've fallen into their trick"?

Harutsuge: By the way, Sasamaru-kun. Aah...hey, do you remember Hiyo-kun from long ago?

She starts the topic in the most unnatural way possible.

Harutsuge: Do you remember?

And she's irritated for some reason.

Sasamaru: I remember.

Harutsuge: How was she then?

Sasamaru: She was a kind girl.

Harutsuge: Of course she was!

Sasamaru: The hell you want me to say?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Araragi: Since long ago, you and Hiyo-chan have always chatted about complicated topics, right?

Sasamaru: Complicated? ...Ah.

Maybe it's that thing I always do with Hiyo.

Sasamaru: That's not complicated. I simply know strange topics. Amazing is Hiyo who can keep up with my biased topics.

Araragi: Yup, yup. Hiyo-chan is very smart, isn't she?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Hiyo is amazing. I think the word "smart" really fits her.

Araragi: I wonder what I should do to become like that.

Sasamaru: What to do?

Araragi: I'm stupid like this. So, I was thinking about what I should do to become smart like Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun is amazing.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

And what's Harutsuge admiring now?

Araragi: What do you think, Sasamaru-chan?

Sasamaru: I too think you're amazing, Araragi.

Because Araragi knows many things that I don't.

Araragi: So, that's your reply.

And now, Araragi is disappointed. What's happening here?

Harutsuge: Hah. So, it's my turn now.

Harutsuge grins. I'm clueless now.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, you said that "Hiyo-kun is smart," right? And that "amazing is Hiyo-kun who can keep up with my biased topics."

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Then, you, {\i1}who can keep up with Hiyo-kun, are smart too{\i0}, right?

Sasamaru: No way.

What's she talking about?

Sasamaru: I just said, Hiyo is merely keeping up with me. And sometimes I really have no idea what she's talking about.

Harutsuge: Hmm, got it.

Sasamaru: Yeah. Her mind must be different from mine.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Harutsuge makes an expression as if she had hit the bull's eye.

She's been like that for a while now.
Ah.

Maybe I can't see through this because I'm thickheaded.

Harutsuge: This is what I think. People who sum up clever people with the word "smart" are, in fact, abandoning things without thinking hard about it.

Sasamaru: Eh?

What does she mean?

Think.
Think.
You can't keep being thickheaded forever.

They are earnestly trying to tell something to the thickheaded me.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, Harutsuge-chan. You're too roundabout.

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan wants you to think more about "why Hiyo-chan is so smart."

Sasamaru: O...okay.

"Why Hiyo is so smart"?

Is there a reason that she's so smart?

Araragi: Why are smart people smart?

Sasamaru: Talent...maybe.

Araragi: So, you can't get smart through effort? I can never become smart?

Sasamaru: That's not true!

Araragi: Right? That's what I mean.

Sasamaru: ...

No idea.

Harutsuge: It's no use. Let's kill him. I'm sure there are forgivable murders.

Araragi: Don't give up on it, Harutsuge-chan.

I'm disappointed at my lack of guessing.
Maybe I'm not thickheaded, but simply stupid?

Harutsuge: Then, here's a question.

I sit down and straighten my posture.

Sasamaru: Yes!

Harutsuge: Oops.

I'm so fired up that Harutsuge backs away a little.

Harutsuge: Err...you have gotten a girlfriend. She's all head over heels for you and doesn't care whatever you do with her. Well, what do you do?

Sasamaru: What do I do? Hmm...

Harutsuge: Anything is fine. "Dating" or "sex" is fine.

Sasamaru: Don't say sex.

Harutsuge: "Fornication," or "intercourse," or "copulation," or "mating."

Sasamaru: They're all the same. Why is your vocabulary rich only with these topics?

Harutsuge: Or training to be a sex slave.

Sasamaru: It's getting worse. Think a little before speaking.

Harutsuge: And, how about it?

Sasamaru: Hmmmm.

But the answer is already decided.

It's "you have gotten a girlfriend. What do you do?" right?

Then, I will...

Sasamaru: "Treasure her."

Araragi: Woooooow!

Harutsuge: What an...unexpected reply. A healthy reaction, unthinkable from a youngster! This is like we're the dirty ones here!

Araragi: In a way, it's very fitting for Sasamaru-chan.

Harutsuge: But the problem is that the person himself hasn't noticed the prerequisite.

Sasamaru: Eh.

So, I guessed it wrong.

Harutsuge: Aah, I want to knock him down. Spit on him, cover him with clothes, and punch him so much!

Sasamaru: Sorry...ugh.

How pathetic.
While I'm still sitting straight, pain runs through the knees I'm tightly grasping.

Sasamaru: A hint! Could you give me a hint!?

Harutsuge: A hint? Look, how on earth are Hiyo-kun's efforts reflected in your eyes?

"Efforts"?

Hiyo: Oh my...everyone, what are you chatting about?

Sasamaru: Ah, Hiyo.

Then, Hiyo arrives.

Harutsuge: Ha ha ha. That's on the same level as pasting a character image over an Italian car and calling it "Ita-car."

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, Harutsuge-chan. You overdid the joke just because you were in panic.

Harutsuge: And that's why we'll take our leave.

Araragi: Sorry for bothering you.

Hiyo: ...?

Th...they're gone.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge! Wait, Harutsuge!

Harutsuge: Hmm?

After that, I leave the living room...
catch up to them, who left ahead, and call out to Harutsuge in the hallway.

Sasamaru: I beg you, tell me the meaning of what you said.

Harutsuge: The meaning? It's just as I said.

Sasamaru: But what do you mean by just as you...

Harutsuge: There.

//text on screen
Bomp

Sasamaru: Ouch! What was that for!?

Harutsuge: Sorry. I thought you weren't there.

Sasamaru: You're not alone! Don't forget that we're always here!

Harutsuge: Err, ah, well...sorry.

Sasamaru: All right, got it.

Harutsuge: What's that "I got a reaction" face about?

Letting Harutsuge's words enter one ear and out the other, I clench my fist.

Sasamaru: Well, I was thinking of saying this next time.

Harutsuge: And why are you so meticulous with something useless?

Sasamaru: And, what did you mean?

Harutsuge: Thickheaded king.

Sasamaru: But I'm asking because I'm aware of that.

Harutsuge: Hmm. So, you finally want to improve.

Sasamaru: I've been thinking this for a long time. I want an opportunity. Otherwise, I'll forever...

Harutsuge: Forever what?

Sasamaru: ...Hold back everyone.

Harutsuge: ...

After I say this, for some reason, Harutsuge tilts her head and ponders.

Harutsuge: I wonder. For me, you look like you don't need anyone.

Sasamaru: What are you talking about?

Harutsuge: Ah, sorry. I didn't mean it like that. I thought that you are able to live all by yourself.

Sasamaru: Me?

Harutsuge: I somewhat know the reason for your surprised face.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: But you're more reliable than you think you are. Far, far stronger than you think you are. Physically, of course, and also mentally.

Harutsuge: That's why you never need someone's help. You can accomplish anything by yourself. You can break through any difficulty alone.

Sasamaru: Stop with the jokes. At the Ayanashisai, things went well because everyone lent me their help.

Harutsuge: Do you think so?

Sasamaru: Of course. And also...

Most importantly...

Sasamaru: ...Because everyone was there...I'm able to be here now because everyone was there for me.

Harutsuge: That's what you think.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Don't say that and listen to me. Yes, I'm happy you think of us like that. Jokes aside.

Harutsuge: But I think like this. Maybe, {\i1}because you obtained what you wanted, you're just dearly protecting it.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I can't say it well, though.

Sasamaru: That's...not true.

Harutsuge: Is that so. For me, you appear to be searching for a "person you must protect."

Sasamaru: "Person I must protect"?

Harutsuge: Exactly. You can basically live by yourself. You don't need a "person to watch over" you. You need "someone to protect."

Sasamaru: I...don't get it.

Harutsuge: It's instinctive. You might not be self-aware of it.

Harutsuge: Well, what I mean is, even if you "can live by yourself," you "must not live by yourself."

Sasamaru: I'm all the more confused.

Harutsuge: In the end, everyone needs "someone." In everyday life, work, hobby, friends. Even if you're able to distract yourself with all these matters, in the end, you still need "someone."

Harutsuge: Several processes exist when choosing this "someone." But I think the root of it is "to protect" and "be protected."

Harutsuge: Weak humans instinctively want "someone to protect them." Conversely, strong humans instinctively want "someone to protect."

Harutsuge: It's the latter that makes you often feel like "I can't abandon them." And, just like that, it develops into feelings of love.

Harutsuge: This is what "must not live alone" means. Humans are living beings who "protect each other" like this. The strong ones protect the weak.

Sasamaru: Err...

I still can't quite grasp Harutsuge's intention.
But, judging from her way of speaking...

Sasamaru: So...you're saying it's love or something?

Harutsuge: It might be more appropriate to call it "couple" instead of love.

Sasamaru: A couple?

Harutsuge: Although, there are countless examples that don't fit in this bundle. Still, the essence is the same.

Sasamaru: ...?

Harutsuge: Sorry. But they often say this: "humans seek in others what they don't have."

Harutsuge: With this meaning, I thought that maybe you were searching not "someone to protect you" but "someone you must protect."

Sasamaru: Hmmm...

Harutsuge: So, you still don't get it?

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Harutsuge: Both participated in the race. But one retired and the other one remained.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: But then, the one who remained isn't self-aware that he "remained." He isn't even self-aware that he's "participating."

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: It was you who had to choose. No, even now, it's you who choose, but...the wind's direction has changed a little.

Harutsuge: So, now, it changed into "you'll accept" or "not accept."

Sasamaru: Accept...what?

Harutsuge: That. It's that.

Sasamaru: That?

Harutsuge: At least notice your feelings. "To accept" or "not accept" is secondary. It's a pity to leave her forever agonizing.

Sasamaru: Hmm...

Harutsuge: Right, thickheaded king?

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Bewildered, I return to the living room, and Hiyo is still here.

Hiyo: What is the matter, honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: The color white is included in the Japanese word "interesting," but there's a word with the opposite meaning that's said as a joke. There, honey.

I enter the room while scratching my head as if I was dejected. I wonder if I seem dispirited.

Worried, Hiyo asks me this.

Sasamaru: Ah, that's the...

My reply.
A question within what I know.

Someone with as much knowledge as Hiyo can pull out her knowledge and match the other party's level.

Hiyo: Someday, I want to become like you, Suu-kun.

Eh.

Araragi: Why are smart people smart?

Sasamaru: Talent...maybe.

Araragi: So, you can't get smart through effort? I can never become smart?

Harutsuge: A hint? Look, how on earth are Hiyo-kun's efforts reflected in your eyes?

Of course.

Since long ago, I've been doing this only with Hiyo.

Only Hiyo could keep up with my topics.

Sasamaru: (Does this mean...)

I was a kid who was unable to think about others' feelings.

Others can get excited with some topic, but they can't keep up with it. I can only talk about topics that aren't shared between us.

{\i1}Only Hiyo was able to keep up{\i0} with my knowledge, like memorizing a textbook.

Sasamaru: ...

Now, this is natural.
I've been agreeing with "Hiyo is smart, she can keep up," but...

Harutsuge: By the way, Sasamaru-kun. Aah...hey, do you remember Hiyo-kun from long ago?

Long ago, Hiyo was, how do I say...
well, she wasn't good with these.

When someone talked about these topics, her eyes sparkled with "amazing!"
It's very different from Hiyo's impression now.

Sasamaru: (Which reminds me, since when did she...?)

Since when did Hiyo become "such a girl"?

Hiyo: Someday, I want to become like you, Suu-kun.

Those words.

Those words were...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, for example...when you sat on your seat now, didn't you feel something unnatural?

Ah, that's right.

My seat's unnaturalness that Harutsuge asked me.

I feel like I finally understand that answer.

The unnaturalness of a classroom of only four people and with an empty seat in the middle.

What do people think every time they move, talk, and occasionally be conscious of it?

Sasamaru: (Hiyo has always been emphasizing my existence.)

It's actually easier if they moved close together. The reason they didn't do this is here.

Every time they're conscious of the unnatural seat, humans think about the person who should be there.

Because it's unnatural.
That's why they feel bothered.
If they move it to the corner of the classroom, they'll drive it away, outside of their everyday consciousness.

But she didn't let them do this.
She induced others not to.

She strove in order for everyone to not forget me, for everyone to always remember me.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: S-sorry.

This isn't overthinking.

It's the consideration from the individual called Hiyo.

Sasamaru: (So, she...)

The woman called Kumigami Hiyo...

Sasamaru: (...was always chasing after me!?)

Just as I yearned for everyone...
Hiyo too kept yearning for me.

Sasamaru: Hiyo-senpai. Please take care of me.

Hiyo: Stop that, honey. Even if heaven and earth were turned upside down, I can't become your senior.

And now, if Hiyo is {\i1}doing it{\i0} for this purpose...

...I wonder how I should accept it.

The favor I have yet to repay.

I'm sure she has overtaken me.

I don't know what this is, but, in those days, she was chasing a "yearning" she found in me.

Kumigami Hiyo overtook me.

And now, I'm chasing her.

Chasing Kumigami Hiyo while thinking, "I must learn from her," and, "I must become like her."

The repaying of the favor, still unfulfilled and getting more and more distant.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. To you, what kind of person is Hiyo-kun?

To me?

To me, Hiyo is...

To me, coming to this school was one of my objectives.

It's the school I yearned for.

Much has happened since the incident with my father, but the issue finally settled, and I was able to come to school.

Then, the re-encounter with them.

Sasamaru: Long time no see, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Sasamaru: Long time no see.

Araragi: Y-yeah. Long time no see.

I'd be lying if I said I wasn't sad. But still, I thought there was something I had to do if I wanted to be together with them.

And then, the school's deep red that we made bloom.

Before I noticed, I was together with everyone again.

So, the Ayanashisai ended, and I felt myself relaxing.

...So much that I didn't know what to do after that.

I should have simply enjoyed my every day, since I would finally be able to have a normal school life.

It was simply the "time" that came.

I was postponing the favor's repayment. The matter that I was engaging wholeheartedly had concluded and "that time" finally arrived.

"That time" finally arrived when we were in this situation, but...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Harutsuge.
Araragi.

Now, I must think about what they repeatedly said to me, the meaning of what was pushing my back.

I must face what I was faintly seeing.

"A bad kid."

"Sasamaru is a bad kid."

This also means to face my own weakness, still clinging inside me without letting go.

Sasamaru: Eh.

I get surprised.
It's too abrupt.

Aomai: Good evening.

Sasamaru: Eh...where did you...

Shaken off by the unnaturalness of "she's here now," I ask something stupid.

But I'm sure the door was locked.
I was with everyone until a moment ago. There were no signs of someone visiting.

Aomai: I know of a secret path.

Sasamaru: A secret path?

Aomai sweetly smiles and...
approaches the confused me, as if ignoring everything.

Sasamaru: Wha...!

She slightly stretches herself and whispers words into my ear.

The moment I hear these words, I feel my heart almost stopping.

"Hiyokel is the culprit, isn't she?"

Sasamaru: Wha...what are you talking about?

Maybe she's still dragging that topic when Hiyo was suspected earlier.

Just like that time, I try to gather the words to deny, but...

Aomai: I heard it. Hiyokel said, "it's my fault."

Sasamaru: Huh?

I freeze at these words.

Aomai: And no playing dumb. The red team said, "let's forget," am I right?

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: I know everything.

Now I get it.

Some time ago, when Araragi's matter was known to all...
I later discovered that it was Aomai who spread it.

I don't intend on pursing this topic now.

But {\i1}how did she find out?{\i0}

We were the only ones there.
The reason she knows despite it all.

And now, the reason she knows the conversation with Hiyo.

Sasamaru: Don't tell me...a wire ta...

Aomai: That doesn't matter. Right? It's no use avoiding the topic this late, okay?

Sasamaru: You're really...

Aomai: What should I dooo? Maybe I'll tell everyoneee.

Sasamaru: St...stop that!!

I find myself supplicating.

Aomai: Then, could you hear what I have to say?

Sasamaru: Huh?

So, I've already...

Aomai: You'll hear, won't you?

Sasamaru: What are you...

Yes, I've already...

Aomai: Ah aah. I wonder how everyone's faces will be when they find out it's Hiyo's fault.

Sasamaru: Stop it!!

Aomai: Then, you'll hear me?

At this moment, I've already yielded to her.

Sasamaru: ...What should I do?

Aomai: It's simple, bro.

Sasamaru: Bro...what?

Aomai: Hehe. Tomorrow, at this place...

//subchapter
Hope Sought in the Student Council
November 22 (Sunday)
With You, Here and Now,

Sasamaru: (This is the place.)

I arrive at the fixed time, at the fixed place that Aomai told me yesterday.

Sasamaru: (What on earth will she make me do?)

What on earth is her objective?

The Ayanashisai has ended. There's no point in obstructing other classes' project.

Which means...

Sasamaru: (Is she holding a grudge toward the winning team?)

I don't want to suspect that it's such a pathetic thing, but it is one possibility.

She didn't doubt that the blue team would win. She might actually have a grudge against the winning team.

But what will she do?

And in a time like this?

Sasamaru: ...

In any case, I have no choice but to wait for her move.

She has already taken hold of our weakness.
And even the worst possible one.

Sasamaru: (If she at least knew my weakness...)

If she had targeted "Suu Sasamaru" and not the "red team"...
and when I'm thinking this...

Aone: Oh?

Sasamaru: Aone?

Aone: W-why are you here?

Sasamaru: Ah, well...

From her behavior, I guess Aomai didn't tell her.

Sasamaru: I-I'm kinda...waiting for someone.

Aone: ...Okay. Me too.

Sasamaru: ...For your sister?

I myself think I speak with an unpleasant voice tone.

Aone: Bingo. We live in the same dorm, but she suddenly said, "let's meet here."

Sasamaru: O-okay.

What does this mean?

Aone: And you, Suu-kun? Who are you waiting for?

Sasamaru: I...err, well...

"Your sister."
Unable to answer this, I become evasive.

Looks like she doesn't know about it.

I don't know what Aomai will do to me if I say anything stupid and hurt her feelings.
I'm tremendously disgusted with myself for thinking this.

Aone: Well, it doesn't matter. You're very popular. Your schedule must be filled with dates.

Sasamaru: W-what's that about?

Aone: It's nooothing.

Aomai is plotting something.
What does she want me to do with Aone here?

Aone: Still, she's late.

Sasamaru: Maybe she's still sleeping?

Aone: Well, in her case, that's possible. But your friend too is not here.

Sasamaru: Y-you're right.

Because it's the same person.

Aone: If only we could use our cellphones here.

Sasamaru: Yeah, seems like the signal doesn't reach here.

Aone: We are deep in the mountains, after all. Not much point in complaining.

Aone takes out her cellphone to check the signal.

Sasamaru: Ah, you're carrying it.

Aone: It's called "mobile," so, I kinda carry it around. Besides, there might be some place with signal.

Sasamaru: And, any results?

Aone: Not at all. Looks like it really doesn't work here.

Sasamaru: Sure.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Aone: C-could you...tell me your phone number?

Sasamaru: My number?

Aone: D-don't you feel happy when there are many numbers on it? S-so, tell me yours.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry. I...

Aone: O-of course.

Sasamaru: Ah, it's not that. I don't have a cellphone.

Aone: I-it's okay. You don't have to lie.

Sasamaru: No, it's true.

Aone: ...Okay. I sometimes hear about it. I mean, a person without one is rare.

Sasamaru: I thought so. But I had no choice. I couldn't bother my aunt.

Aone: Your aunt?

Sasamaru: Yeah. I was living at my aunt's house.

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: She's a very good person. She once told me she would buy me one, but, well...I can't keep depending on her.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Cellphones have a monthly basic fee, don't they? And she already takes care of the food and school expenses.

Aone: I-I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: Ah, it's fine. Me too, sorry for bringing this up.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: So, you're happy when it has many numbers. I kinda know that feeling.

Aone: Ah, it's not! That's just a...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Aone: E-exactly. You feel happy with many numbers.

Sasamaru: Yeah. I'm happy if the phone number of someone like me makes you happy. Though, I don't have one.

Aone: But I wanted to know yours.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: I-it's nothing! Still, she really is late.

Sasamaru: ...That's true.

Aomai: That's true.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: Hey! Since when were you there!?

Aomai: From when you thought, "I know I can't use my cellphone. But I want to feel him a bit closer to me. I want his phone number <3"

Aone: H-how can you so accurately guess my feelings...I mean, if you have arrived, call out already!

Aomai: I would bother you.

Aone: B-bother, you say?

I don't quite get it, but I guess the sisters are good friends.

Both seem very energetic when they're together.

Aomai: ...Hmm?

Sasamaru: It's nothing.

But...what you're doing is...

Aone: And? Why did you call me all the way over here?

Aomai: Yes. About that.

She gulps once.

What on earth is she...

Aomai: The bro over here wants to date you, sis.

The two: What!?

The one she calls "bro" and points at is me.

Aomai: Bro asked me because he's too embarrassed to ask himself. What a shy boy.

Aone: A d-d-d-da-d-d-da-date, with me!?

Aomai: Yup. Right, bro?

Sasamaru: Err...eh?

Aomai: {\i1}Am I right?{\i0}

Aomai narrows her eyes.

Sasamaru: A-aah...yes, that's right.

Aone: W-w-wh-why with m-m-me?

Aomai: Jeez, sis. What a rude thing to ask.

Aone: R-ru-rude? B-but...

Aomai: So, the third wheel here is leaving. You two, take your time.

Aone: Wa-wait a mi...

Aomai: Well, bro. Take care of sis.

What was that?

The question I repeated inside my head many times when leaving the dorm has become bold, gigantic, and now descends on me like a tsunami.

What on earth is Aomai thinking?

What does she want me to do?
What's her objective?

Sasamaru: ...

I fold my arms and ponder, but nothing's coming up.

A...
anyway...

Sasamaru: Hey.

Aone: Ies!

The moment I call out to her, Aone stiffens her body as if it had hardened.

Sasamaru: Err...well, where do you wanna go?

Aone: W-where? Umm, err...

Aone becomes deep red and keeps silent.

Aone: First, may I...a-a-ask one t-t-thing?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aone: I-i-is t-this r-r-really a d-d-da-d-date?

She kinda squeaks at the end of the question.

A date, huh.

Whatever Aomai's plan may be, my only choice is to follow it.

I must prepare myself for the worst.

Sasamaru: It's a date.

Aone: I-is that so?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aone: T-then, any place you want to go is fine.

Sasamaru: Place I want?

For some reason, I recall my date with Hiyo.
Didn't that end up just like this?

Aone: B-but, i-it's a d-d-date, isn't it?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aone: I-I-I'm the type who devotes herself, despite everything.

Sasamaru: O-okay.

But...
just like last time, I'm greatly perplexed again.

Where should we go?

We head over here.

And also over there.

And even there.

Wait.

It's exactly the same as the date with Hiyo.

Sasamaru: (Good one, me. What an uninteresting man I am.)

But there was a definitive difference at that time.

It's the present school's situation.

Sasamaru: ...Are you okay?

It's finally starting to sprout in us, but everyone else has been feeling the "illness" for some time now.

Aone replaced it with the student council manual, but it was recently.

Aone is strangely sweating for some time now.
Maybe she's in pain a little?

Aone: I-I'm fine.

Sasamaru: ...Okay.

I wonder if I'm overthinking.

Sasamaru: Wanna take a break?

Still, we can't overdo it. I propose this.

Aone: A 'rest'!?

Sasamaru: A rest...well, it is a rest.

Aone: B-but that's so cheap.

Aone: M-my ideal f-first...first time was to stay over at my boyfriend's place, and...

Aone: And, in the morning, wake up before him, make him breakfast...

Aone: B-bu-but, if you're fine with that...I...

Sasamaru: Aah...I feel the topic has extended to an unforeseen direction, but how about resting at the bench over there?

Aone: A-a-a-at the b-b-bench!?

Sasamaru: Wait, hear me.

Aone: Of all things, to do it on a bench...

Sasamaru: What are you talking about now?

Aone: B-but, I'm sure this will become a good memory later. Yes. It's kinda exciting if I think like this instead.

Sasamaru: Umm, Aone.

Aone: All right. I'll resolve myself. Suu-kun is popular. This must be nothing to him. I must do my best to match him.

Sasamaru: (Maybe, Aone hasn't noticed she's speaking out her thoughts?)

I was sure we were chatting until halfway.

Sasamaru: H...hey, Aone.

Aone: Whaaat is it?

Wow! She's forcing so much!

Feels like she's Smiling with a capitalized "S."

Sasamaru: Aah...I'll get something to drink. What would you like?

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Aone?

Aone: How...should I reply to this?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: I'm sure Suu-kun is testing me. If I fail here, I'll never get another chance.

Sasamaru: Err...

Aone: Black tea? Coffee? Or green tea? Or maybe soda?

Aone: I heard Suu-kun likes green tea. Which means I should be thoughtful and drink the same as him.

Aone: No, what if he says, "I hate women without individuality, boo"!? Yes, the green tea choice is a trap. It's a trap!

Aone: I was about to fall for it. Hah hah hah. You silly. These kinds of traps don't work on me.

Sasamaru: Heeey, Aone.

Aone: But this means it's black tea...no, coffee? And if it's coffee, is it bitter? Or sour? Which one will promote me the most!?

Aone: I'll just pick a soda...aah! But Suu-kun is so kind, he'll hurriedly buy it for me! Then, the insides of the can, naturally shaking all over, will become...!

Aone: If it gushes out the moment I open it...Suu-kun might think it's his fault! Because he's kind! He's so kind!

Aone: So, which one should I choose!?

At this moment, Aone shows a surprised expression.

Or rather, I have a very basic question. Why does she speak out her thoughts?

She is about to blow up her fuse. Is this it?

Aone: Hah, hah hah.

An expression of satisfaction.
Aone has a radiant smile on her face.

Sasamaru: D-did you decide what you want?

Aone: Yes. Suu-kun, what will you drink?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: So, green tea?

Sasamaru: Aah...that's fine.

Aone: I'll go buy it, then.

Saying that, she intently looks at me.

I'm scared of something, so, I reply with a sweet smile.

Aone: All riiiiiiiiight!

Aone: Good one! You did good, me! Kiyo! Your sister did it!

Aone: Yes. I was being tested. The question itself was a trap. In short, pretend to go buying and test me to see if I can say, "no, I'll go buy it for you"!

Aone: A trial to see if I'm thinking, "I'm a woman, of course I'll go buy it." No doubt that, on the day I say, "No, I'd like a coffee," he'll spit on my face and say, "fuck you, bitch!"

Sasamaru: Umm...what's happening with my personality inside Aone?

Aone: Okay, I'm going! Green tea it is!

And she leaves.
Just like a typhoon.

Sasamaru: (Good heave...)

Aone: Here it is!

Sasamaru: Damn fast!!

She hands out the green tea can.

Sasamaru: Th...thanks.

For now, I open the can.
And have one gulp.

Then, as if she was relieved, Aone sits on the bench.

She's not a bad girl.
I know this.
She's too energetic.
I know this, too.

Sasamaru: (...I must say something.)

If there's something I must ask, it's...

Sasamaru: ...How are you feeling?

Aone: Ah, yes...I-I'm all right.

She's sweating a lot. Must be because of the running just now.

I guess her symptoms are lighter than I thought.

I don't think the manual is already working. It must be an individual difference.

I feel relieved.

Well...it's my chance to ask her.

Sasamaru: Which reminds me, Aone. I have been wanting to say this for a while now.

Aone: A confession out of nowhere!?

Sasamaru: Eh.

Aone: Eh? Eh? Don't people normally try to exaggerate with this? Like, at the end of the date, mustering up all of one's courage?

Aone: I got it.

It appears Aone, again, notices something.
Unfortunately.

Aone: Suu-kun is very charming. Very popular. That's why he's so calm. He's experienced. Aah, yes, I must not measure him with my common sense.

Aone: This is Suu-kun's speed. It's "Suupeed." Tee hee☆ In any case, this is normal for Suu-kun. I must not get left behind.

Aone: But wait. If this is a confession, then what's next? D-don't tell me...don't tell me...

Aone suddenly takes out a mirror and starts carefully checking her face (especially around the lips).

Aone: I-it's okay. I let my guard down thinking I would go out with Kiyo, but it's okay, right?

Sasamaru: H-hey, Aone.

Aone: What is it, Suu-kun?

Whoa! She's so meek out of the blue!?

I don't know because I've never experienced it, but she's probably staging the last part of a date, the "when the mood is brought to the climax"!!

Aone: Well, I too have advanced the clock's needle. Do your best, me!

Sasamaru: And...what I wanted to say is...

Aone: Y...es. What...is it?

Wow, this is so difficult.

Sasamaru: Well...some time ago, you came to check when I was together with Hiyo, right?

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: If I really was the culprit who destroyed the yellow team's project.

Aone: Ah, y-yes.

Sasamaru: Later, I realized that you believed me back then.

Aone: Eh.

Sasamaru: You asked like that because you believed me. Am I right?

Yes.
It was later when I started understanding what kind of person she was.

Then, I realized...
the meaning of Aone's behavior at that time.

Aone believed me.
"I cannot believe he would do that."

That's why she personally came to ask me.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

I lower my head.

Sasamaru: I've always wanted to say my thanks.

Aone: ...

For a while, Aone makes a befuddled face.

Aone: ...So, you noticed it.

Then, her cheeks get dyed in pink, and she happily looks downward.

Aone: Hey, Suu-kun. May I ask something too?

Sasamaru: Hmm, yeah.

Aone: Umm...

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aone: ...Ah.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Aone: It's about...Kumigami-san.

Sasamaru: About Hiyo?

Aone: H-how is she?

Sasamaru: How? You mean her health?

Aone: Y-yes. Her health...too.

Aone tightly purses her lips.

Aone: Did she say anything...about me?

Sasamaru: About you?

Some...story from long ago?

This is the only common point I know between them.

Hiyo seemed to avoid the blue sisters since they re-encountered each other here at the school.
Thinking about Hiyo's feelings, I can't blame her.

Aone: ...

Aone's behavior is different from a while ago.

She's looking downward and waiting for my reply.

Sasamaru: (Aone.)

I already know...

...what kind of person she is.

Sasamaru: She hasn't said anything.

Aone: R...right.

Sasamaru: Yes. She spectacularly didn't say anything.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Not even a single complaint.

Hiyo didn't say anything.

I know her feelings of avoiding the sisters because of what happened in the past.

She isn't a girl to complain about that now.

So, Aone...

Aone: Right!

...is displaying tears like this.

She's feeling sorry.
Even now, she's regretting her childhood mistake.

Else she wouldn't ask this now.

Looking at Aone, slightly trembling, I think this.

Aone: She's...an idiot.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: She gets bullied because she's like that. She should get revenge or something. I don't mind it now.

Sasamaru: ...

So, it wasn't just Hiyo who was bothered.

Aone too is dragging those days with her.

Aone: uuh...

Sasamaru: Aone.

Aone: I...I...

Sasamaru: Do you want to feel better?

This is what it means to drag it on.

No matter how much you regret, you cannot forgive yourself.

You cannot easily settle even a childhood mistake.
If she were a girl to settle...

Aone: I'm sorry!

...she wouldn't apologize for her sister like that.

Aone: I...did horrible...things.

Aone: At that time, if you hadn't stopped...I would have done more horrible...

She's serious.
She's seriously regretting it.

Sasamaru: Then...

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Then, Aone.

Aone: Hey.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: Why did you stop?

Sasamaru: ...Why?

Aone: I should have done it. She's still a "bad person."

Sasamaru: Aone?

Her...behavior seems...

Aone: She hasn't changed a thing, has she?

Sasamaru: What...are you saying, Aone?

Aone: "What I'm saying"? Something wrong with what I'm saying? It's exactly that. She's a "bad person." And I must deal with her.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: But of course she gets bullied.

Sasamaru: Are you...serious about that, Aone?

Wasn't she regretting it?

Even now, dragging it on...
and unable to forgive herself. Isn't this the reason she asked about Hiyo?

Aone: Serious about what?

Sasamaru: Those words just now. Are you really...

Aone sighs while looking at me, who's trembling and unable to believe, but also unable to let it slide.

Aone's face that I was looking at until a moment ago is no more.

And the words she speaks are...

Aone: ...Never changing, eh.

At this instant...

Hiyo: Why are you doing this? Let's get alo...o-ouch.

Hiyo: Stop! Stop that. It hurts!

Hiyo: Waaaaah. Waaaaaaaaah.

{\i1}"Never changing."{\i0}

These...

...indifferent words make my body hot.

Sasamaru: Stop screwing around!!

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: It's because you hurt her! She became like that because you made her suffer!!

The overflowing feelings...aren't stopping.

Sasamaru: She still can't forget that! That's why she's trembling! It might have been something inconsequential to you! It might have been just a game for you! But not for her!!

Sasamaru: It's not that she never changes! She {\i1}cannot change!{\i0} She remembers that every time she sees your face! She should have grown up. This should be all in the past. But the feelings from that time come back!!

The welling-up anger becomes words of abuse, spilling out from my mouth.

Sasamaru: This is how deeply you hurt her! Don't you know how strong she is!? Don't you know how nobly she is living!? Even she trembles. She's frightened!!

Sasamaru: This is what you did!!

Though, I know I shouldn't say this.

Sasamaru: And you...stop speaking so friendly about her!

I cannot hold it down.

But I think this anger...

...is different from that muddy white.

Sasamaru: Say something.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Hey.

Aone: ...It's not.

Sasamaru: It's not? What is?

Aone: The one who never changes...is me.

At this moment, what's spilling from Aone's eyes...
are large teardrops.

Aone: When I re-encountered her at this school...she was startled...with a very frightened face.

Sasamaru: That's because you...

Aone: I know. I...know. At that time, I didn't know who she was.

Aone: I had forgotten...her face. I couldn't remember it at all. But she remembered. She was looking at me with a pale face.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: I found out her name...finally realized who she was...and...I understood.

Aone: How much I hurt her...How deeply I hurt her...

Aone: I did something inexcusable...I finally understood this...no, it's presumptuous to say I understood.

Aone: ...It remained all this time inside her. Remaining as a wound.

Aone: Despite this, I...simply thought it was something from our childhood, that she would forgive me if I apologized.

Aone: But she always had those eyes when I approached her. Normally...when I was looking from afar, she made faces she never showed me.

Sasamaru: Aone...don't tell me...

Aone: I have always wanted to tell her: "I'm sorry!"

Overflowing like a broken dam...
the tears now become words.

Aone: But she was always with that face...and looking at me with those eyes...I didn't know...what to do. Before I noticed, I said...horrible things.

Sasamaru: ...

...So, that's what happened.

"Never changing, eh."

These indifferent words.

They weren't directed at Hiyo.
So, they were toward herself.

Herself, unable to settle the past issues.
This means she's the same as those days.

Frustrated at her own self, unchanged and unable to change.

Even when she tries to give one step forward, the hurt party's face is scorched into her eyes.

She can't take a firm step forward because she knows it's all her fault.

Unable to advance further.

The miserableness toward herself.
And indignation.
These futile feelings whirl.

This is why...
she's always like that in front of Hiyo.

Aone: I'm sorry...I'm sorry!

But...

Sasamaru: Apologize.

Aone: I'm sorry! I'm sorry! Forgive me!

Sasamaru: Not to me. Apologize to Hiyo.

Yes.
Everything necessary is there.

{\i1}The ill feelings won't disappear just by regretting.{\i0}

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: You haven't said it, have you? It's not too late. Go apologize.

Aone: B-but when I'm near her, Kumigami-san...

Sasamaru: So what? Isn't that what you should do? Or are you going to keep waiting for Hiyo to welcome you with a smile?

Sasamaru: Why must Hiyo do that? It's you who must give one step toward Hiyo, who took a step back, give another step and shorten the distance, isn't it?

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Don't underestimate Hiyo. If you look straight at her face, I'm sure she will listen to you. She will look at you if you tell her your true feelings.

Sasamaru: It might take time. Such is how much she is hurt. But things will change if you step forward.

Aone: ...Chan...ge?

Sasamaru: Yes, change. No, you will change.

Sasamaru: You will change her impression of you. You'll throw your good faith onto her. If you truly feel you're wrong, you can do this.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: How about it? You still can't? Will you appear in front of Hiyo and behave as always?

Aone: I...I will! I will do it!

Both her voice yelling this and her eyes are straight and crystal clear.

Sasamaru: Then, I will root for you. And I beg you. Try to befriend her.

Aone: Y...yes!

Aone stands up and turns around before...

Aone: Su...Suu-kun.

...rubbing the tears filling her eyes and...

Aone: Thanks for scolding me.

...leaves off after saying this.

Surely, toward the red team's dormitory.

I don't know what Aomai is thinking.

Yesterday, the first thing I did after returning was to search the whole dormitory for "a certain object" that was probably planted.

Though, it was difficult to make something up to search around the girls' rooms.

And the number that appeared...

Sasamaru: ...

I don't have technical knowledge or equipment, so, I don't know if I took all of them, but...
I reflexively space out.

Sasamaru: (What on earth...is she thinking?)

And, today.
I headed to the appointed place and finally returned to the dormitory.

Perhaps by a whim, she immediately left. In the end, I kept chatting with Aone.

Sasamaru: (What on earth does she want to do?)

She was lively when she was with Aone. She didn't look like someone who would do this.

But...

Sasamaru: (She knows.)

Hiyo: The "illness" now spreading inside this school...

Hiyo: ...this is all my fault.

I feel impatience every time I'm aware of this.

I recall the number of a "certain object" I discovered and disposed of yesterday.
I even feel dizzy.

I immediately removed it because of the discomfort of "she's listening," but she probably noticed that I removed it.

Maybe I was hasty.

Or so I thought. Today, she hasn't touched on this topic at all.

This is stirring up a strange fear.

It was better when I clearly knew her objective of "winning at the Ayanashisai."

I was able to tell that her actions were linked to this.
An easy-to-understand scheme called 'obstruct in order to win.'

I'm sure she installed {\i1}that{\i0} in this dormitory long before I first arrived here.

And this dorm might not be the only one.

The class who won last year was the blue team.

Last year, what did she do with these?
No, I don't even want to think about this.

But now it's different.

I don't know her objective.
I have no idea what she's after.

"Grudge against the winning red team" is possible, but I can't help but feel that it isn't this.

At this point, I have no concrete proof to deny, but I feel this.

Sasamaru: (Then, what is her objective?)

What is she thinking?
What does she want to do?

Without knowing her objective, she's leading me around by the nose.

I feel a creepiness for not knowing her purpose.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, what's with that amusing face?

Then, Harutsuge arrives.

Sasamaru: I was born with this face.

Harutsuge: It's so boring when you become serious like that. You're a handsome man, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: You don't have to go out of your way to praise me just because you don't know how to reply.

Harutsuge: No, it's true that you're handsome as far as I'm concerned. Dunno about girls in general.

Sasamaru: ...And stop with replies to make me embarrassed.

Harutsuge: Which reminds me, a visitor from the blue team came earlier.

Sasamaru: Eh. And, how was it?

Harutsuge: Well, she talked a lot with Hiyo-kun. I thought I was in the way and left, so, I don't know the details.

Harutsuge: But looking at Hiyo-kun's face when she left...I'm sure it was a "good conversation."

Sasamaru: ...Okay.

Aone.

Harutsuge: I guess she was worried for a long time.

Sasamaru: Aone was?

Harutsuge: Yes. Well, I guess I can say this now. She discussed something with me days ago.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Aone: Ah.

Harutsuge: Oh, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Ah.

It was at that time.

Harutsuge: I said that it's better to directly tell the person herself rather than worry, but she couldn't quite decide on it.

Harutsuge: But today, she's...really, what happened there?

Harutsuge shows a refreshing expression, as if she had seen through everything.

I'm relieved.

Aone was able to put a period on her long-time remorse.
Well, not everything was solved with this, but this is a large step forward.

I'm really relieved.

Araragi: My goodness, you seem to be having fun.

And Araragi arrives.

Araragi: What were you talking about?

Harutsuge: I'm searching for topics for the erotic novel I'm writing as a hobby, and Sasamaru-kun said, "you first must experience those things," and tried to rape me.

Sasamaru: How can you lie so smoothly? Or rather, you do that as a hobby?

Harutsuge: With my delusion power, my debut as a novelist is a piece of cake.

Araragi: Let's apologize to the novelists who are working hard, okay?

Harutsuge: No, it's easy to debut as a novelist.

Araragi: And so confident.

Harutsuge: Listen. First, strengthen your will of 'telling our descendants good-enough contents to make them return to this moment.'

Araragi: Hmm, hmm.

Harutsuge: And...what a curious thing. Our descendants, living in an age when time machines have already been developed, return to me.

Araragi: Ooooh.

Harutsuge: Then, I ask about future events and use them as topics for my stories. Stories about the actual future but different from present fiction ones. A story focusing on even the finest details of reality will be a bestseller instantly.

Araragi: A-amazing! It's not a future where cars drive inside tubes, is it!?

Harutsuge: I can use the events from now until the future as much as needed. And when the events actually happen, the book will sell like hot cakes.

Araragi: Everyone! There's a genius here! A genius!

Hiyo: But that's if Harutsuge-san has literary talent.

Hiyo arrives and casually jabs.

I'm sure she looks happy because...

Sasamaru: Wait, that's not the only place to jab at. In the first place...

I'm unbearably happy that Hiyo is back to her usual clothes.

So, I join the topic too.

Araragi: But maybe that's because you all don't have dreams.

Sasamaru: No, that's not it.

Hiyo: Maybe Araragi-san has too many dreams.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun, just tell that her brain is filled with flower beds.

Sasamaru: You brought this fantasy topic and now betrays her!?

Araragi: All-out jabbing is really harsh. Boo-hoo-hoo for me.

Sasamaru: And someone, notice that the topic has long distanced itself from an erotic novel.

A friendly chat just like always.

Regardless of the situation...
our usual mood shows up when we gather.

Araragi and Harutsuge too are as usual.

And Hiyo too.

Sasamaru: (This is good.)

What I must protect are these moments.

If we gather, it's always...

At this moment, I realize.

Sasamaru: (No. It's not this.)

"Hiyo is the same as always"?

This means that {\i1}I'm doubting Hiyo.{\i0}

{\i1}I simply want to pretend not to see it because we're friends.{\i0}

In fact, I'm the most...

Sasamaru: Aah...excuse me, I'm going to the bathroom.

Araragi: Have a safe trip.

Harutsuge: He went out of his way to declare it. How suspicious. Is he creating an alibi to see his lover?

Hiyo: He doesn't need to make an alibi. He may behave however he wants.

Harutsuge: What a considerate love this is. Sasamaru-kun. Hiyo-kun is a faithful and traditional wife who is OK with a lover. But if you step on her consideration, die already.

Sasamaru: There are several grammatical mistakes there.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san. I-it's fine, honey. You may go.

Harutsuge: Ugh...I'm crying!

Sasamaru: Hahaha...I'm going.

At this place, a bit distant from the dormitory, I close my eyelids.

Sasamaru: (Listen, Sasamaru. You did what you must not.)

Sasamaru: (Go, resolve yourself.)

I take a deep breath and open both my eyes.

The fresh blood dripping from my forehead warns me.

Sasamaru: (Listen, do not mistake this. Suu Sasamaru.)

Sasamaru: (I swore, to "forget" it, together with my friends.)

Sasamaru: (Hiyo didn't do it. She hasn't done anything.)

Erase this memory.

Sasamaru: (All right? Don't mistake this. Absolutely do not mistake this.)

Sasamaru: If you want to be proud that they're your "friends," absolutely do not mistake this!!

The act of punching myself is far better than punching another.

Still, it hurts.

For {\i1}I have to coat pain on top of more pain.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (...All right.)

It's all right now.

But what should I do?

I'm at a loss.

"We can delay the illness' progress if we follow the student council manual."
I think there's nothing wrong with this, but this isn't enough to improve the situation.

We couldn't persuade everyone in the school. And even if we did, it would only be temporary.
It won't solve the problem.

What should I do?

Now that Aomai knows it, what should I do to protect Hiyo?

Sasamaru: (Wait.)

"We can delay the illness' progress if we follow the student council manual"?

Sasamaru: (Doesn't this mean that the student council knows something?)

Now, this finally comes to mind.

That manual is faithfully printed every year.

There are practically no students who read it.
Still, "printed every year" means the present student council is related to it in some way.

They should at least read it.

Sasamaru: (Maybe I should try asking them?)

Now that I've decided...

...I return again to the living room and propose the idea to everyone.

Harutsuge: Hey, what happened to your head?

Sasamaru: Aah, I tripped. More importantly...

Harutsuge: "Tripped"? Hey.

Hiyo: I-in any case, let me treat it.

Sasamaru: Forget that. Listen.

After listening to my story, everyone...

Harutsuge: Sure. That makes sense. Or rather, we should have noticed that when we concluded that the student council manual has that effect.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan. That's thinking outside the box.

We might learn something if we ask the student council.

Everyone discovers a hope in this.

But at the same time, everyone tilts their heads.

Sasamaru: And...does anyone know well the student council?

Exactly.

After I ask this, no one answers.

Araragi: How about you, Hiyo-chan? Aren't you friends with Waka-san?

At this moment...

...Hiyo trembles her body with a startle.

Araragi: What's wrong?

Hiyo: I-it's nothing.

Sasamaru: And, how about it, Hiyo?

Hiyo: When it comes to the student council, I too...

Sasamaru: Can you get in touch with Waka-san?

Hiyo: Since the Ayanashisai...I haven't seen her.

When I spoke about it to Hiyo some time ago, I felt a mystery about the student council's existence.

As if saying the "transparent student council" is literally "transparent," no one knows their true state nor their whereabouts.

Each class is assigned a color.

They create a project with their colors as the theme and compete at the Ayanashisai.

This is precisely why the student council is "transparent."

Therefore, the ones who already {\i1}have colors{\i0} cannot touch the transparent ones.

It is not white.
It won't get colored after touching it.

We cannot even see it, let alone touch.

And we also cannot find it.

Araragi: I got nothing. No one knows the details of the student council.

Everyone went around asking their acquaintances from other classes.

Hiyo: Their answers were the same. They all said the last time they saw her was at the Ayanashisai.

It's not just about Waka-san.

No one knows about the student council, of course, nor about its other members.

Sasamaru: Yes. The teachers might know about...

Harutsuge: I asked them about it just now.

Harutsuge too returns.

Harutsuge: And I realized something truly absurd.

Sasamaru: Something absurd?

Harutsuge: It looks like the "Yumemidori Academy student council" is a peculiar organization. The teachers don't know their whereabouts, of course, and they know nothing, from their members to their scope.

Sasamaru: Don't be ridiculous!

Is that even possible?

Harutsuge: But it's a fact.

Sasamaru: ...Is there a possibility the teachers are hiding the student council?

Araragi: Hmmm...but in the situation we are in, everyone will rush there if they find out about the student council.

Harutsuge: So, they're protecting the student council?

Sasamaru: No, this is something I noticed. So, it's hard to think they all are.

Sasamaru: Because in order to notice this, we have to follow the student council manual as an "actual experience" to know its extent.

Araragi: Ah, that's right. That makes sense.

Sasamaru: I'm talking about the possibility of the teachers protecting the student council while aware of this.

Harutsuge: In other words, they have a rough idea of how to solve this, and it's to not increase the panic?

Sasamaru: Yes. Which means we don't need to panic like this.

Harutsuge: That's not possible.

Araragi: But why?

Harutsuge: I saw the teachers' dismay with my own eyes. If they knew how to solve it, they would behave in a way to make the students more relieved.

Sasamaru: Then, the teachers' reaction was actually...

Harutsuge: No, they tried very hard to cheer me up. Repeatedly saying "it's all right," "it's all right." I thought, "aah, adults sure are great."

Harutsuge: Still, the teachers too are in "this situation."

Harutsuge: For me, it seemed like their voices of "it's all right" were toward themselves.

Sasamaru: ...Right.

Harutsuge: So, your possibility cannot exist, Sasamaru-kun. If the student council knew something, the teachers would want to question them too, wouldn't they?

Araragi: B-but it's the teachers!

Harutsuge: No, Araragi-kun. They're "humans."

Harutsuge's bitter words...
grant a layer of silence to the room.

Sasamaru: ...Let's say that is true.

Harutsuge: Which premise do you mean by "that"?

Sasamaru: "The teachers are not hiding the student council."

Harutsuge: Yes. If that is true?

Sasamaru: It's a fact that the student council "was working" until the Ayanashisai. The Ayanashisai was held because of their management.

Sasamaru: If they worked, it means they exist. Summing up...

Harutsuge: They must be in this school.

Sasamaru: Yes. Despite that, the teachers don't know their whereabouts. Isn't that right?

Harutsuge: Well, there's no merit in hiding it.

Sasamaru: So, they exist, but no one knows their whereabouts. This is the premise.

Harutsuge: So, you want to say that we can find them because they exist?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Just search every nook and cranny.

Harutsuge: But they might simply be giving instructions from a different place.

Araragi: That's a bit...unrealistic.

Harutsuge: Well, I said it while thinking that. It's simply one possibility.

Harutsuge: I got it. Let's say they were in this school.

Harutsuge: What if they're no longer here?

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Harutsuge: I'm saying, "what if they're the ones who broke down the suspending bridge?"

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: And the pathogen...

She holds her tongue halfway because she's worried about Hiyo.

But we swore to "forget" it.

Harutsuge: What if they spread the pathogen, broke down the suspending bridge, and are now loudly laughing while looking up to the mountain?

Sasamaru: No...way...

It's the worst possibility.

Harutsuge: I won't let you say this didn't cross your mind. Sasamaru-kun, when you told us that "the student council might know something," everyone should have noticed this possibility somewhere in our hearts.

Harutsuge: Our thoughts were interrupted at, "what if..."

Harutsuge: We didn't want to think we were going through this due to someone's malice.

Sasamaru: ...

Words aren't coming out.
I can't find the words to reply.
No matter how much I search, I can't find them.

Harutsuge: We would despair if we thought this. If someone purposefully {\i1}did this with evil intent,{\i0} it would mean we are being threatened.

Harutsuge: We would become not "victims who got involved" but "the targeted group." The meaning is completely different.

Harutsuge: And if we were being targeted, in the worst case...

Araragi: Stop it!!

At this moment, Araragi's scream echoes.

Araragi: Why? Why must we suspect them like this? The student council are students, too, right? Aren't we friends going to the same school? Why must we suspect them?

Araragi: I don't want this! The student council would never do something horrible like that!

Araragi: You just said it. That the student council was at the school the whole time! This means it's the people always here at the school, right?

Araragi: We might not have talked with each other! They might not call us friends!

Araragi: Even so, I don't want to suspect this school's students!

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Harutsuge: I'm sorry.

Araragi: ...Sorry. I got agitated.

Harutsuge: I'm sorry, everyone.

Sasamaru: No, I know. Harutsuge, you dared say that. You dared thrust the truth onto us, who were unconsciously running away.

That's our elder sister.

She dares to say what we find hard to and takes the blame.
This is Kashi Harutsuge.

Araragi: Yes. I know, but, I...

Sasamaru: But it's only a possibility. It "might be so." Then, let's prove it.

Araragi: Prove it?

Sasamaru: Yes. We'll prove the student council's innocence.

Sasamaru: So, let's look for it.

Harutsuge: Look for the student council?

Sasamaru: Yes. And also for the "student council room" they are in.

Sasamaru: I'm sure they're at this school. They aren't coming out because they have their circumstances.

Sasamaru: And maybe...they might know something about what's happening now in the school.

Sasamaru: So, let's look for them! Together!

Araragi: Yup, yup! Let's look, let's look.

Harutsuge: Really, we are no match for the leader.

Araragi: All right! Four Noble Ones, maaarch!

Someone once said, "transparent student council."

They are not transparent.
They too have a color.
A color as one from this school.

And we, the red team...

We, the Ayanashisai's winner class, will find the student council!!

Hiyo: ...

We decided to look for someone, but this school is too large.

Araragi: I guess they're not inside the school buildings.

Sasamaru: Let's look elsewhere. I'll look over here.

Still, we can't give up.

We search for the student council room in every single hallway of the school, in every single room.

Although, there's no room that we can say, "no one knows about it."

While thinking that this idea of a secret society is absurd, our reality is a nasty one. So, we must take it into consideration.

We run around the vainly spacious school grounds.

Harutsuge: I tried looking from a place with a wide view, but nothing that looks like it.

Araragi: It wasn't around the gymnasium. I searched to see if there wasn't an underground entrance at the floor of the warehouse, but...

Then, we change our perspective. We split up and look in each dormitory in order to search not for the student council room but for its members. But we get nothing.

Or rather, the only student council member we know is Waka-san.

So, we ask the teachers again, but their reply is that they don't even know which dormitory is the student council one.
This is absurd.

Harutsuge: Maybe there's a dorm exclusive for the student council?

Sasamaru: I considered that possibility, but I couldn't find any unfamiliar building after searching this much. I think it doesn't exist.

Harutsuge: But the student council is simply the students' representatives. They also have classes. They must belong to a class, but everyone is persisting with "I don't know."

Which means...

Sasamaru: So, everyone simply doesn't know about the student council members. Meaning that they're among the people we know.

This is the conclusion we arrive at.

Harutsuge: Of course. No wonder they call it the "transparent student council."

Sasamaru: Meaning that the "student council room" might not exist. If they're intentionally hiding their identity, they should want to avoid establishing a meeting place.

Harutsuge: So, they turned themselves into a secret organization? What for?

Sasamaru: Well...I still don't know.

Harutsuge: Then, let's go around asking everyone, "are you a student council member?" We can infer the members one after another.

Harutsuge: It's okay. "Harutsuge Hell Tour" has the effect of making all humans' tongues light and smooth.

Sasamaru: No. This means there's a possibility that the student council members don't know each other's faces. Even without meeting, they can hide their identity with this.

Harutsuge: Aah, how bothersome. It's very unrealistic. What's going on with this school?

Araragi: Hmmmm. I wonder how they look for new members.

Sasamaru: That makes sense. At least one person must know everyone's face. They do need to get in touch with each other.

Harutsuge: So, until we find that single person, let's use the "Harutsuge Hell Tour," from number 1 to number 99.

Araragi: There are so many.

Sasamaru: If they really want to hide their whereabouts, that person should already have concealed themselves. Or so they should.

Harutsuge: So, they were kidnapped or disposed of. Things have gotten very crazy.

Sasamaru: No, it's not that. I think it's too much to say that the contact is the mastermind. I think they're simply one of the underlings.

Harutsuge: Why?

Sasamaru: The contact inevitably has to appear at the school. If they're really the mastermind, I think they'll never appear in front of everyone as a "student council member."

Araragi: Hmmm. They're this much thorough. It makes sense.

Harutsuge: That means the "contact" is a "student council member" among the school's stude...

Eh.

Everyone looks at each other at the same time.

Sasamaru: Hey. Summing up, the student council member is simply not known as one and has to be in one of the classes, that is, in one of the dorms, right?

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Sasamaru: But no matter how much we search, there's no such a student. Everyone said, "there are no student council members in our class."

Araragi: T-that's correct.

Sasamaru: But the "contact" is known by everyone as a student council member, right? Doesn't this contradict with everyone saying, "there are no student council members in our class"?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: In short...

The student council "contact," Waka-san, {\i1}is not a student from this school.{\i0}

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...Or so I think.

Araragi: Hiyo-chan.

Harutsuge: No, Hiyo-kun is unilaterally adored. We don't know anything about her. She always dodged the subject when we asked her, didn't she?

Hiyo: Err...certainly, her behavior was often unnatural.

Araragi: No, I mean...sorry for saying this about a friend.

Hiyo: Thank you very much for your consideration, Araragi-san.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo was silent the whole time.

When we were discussing, there were no resourceful observations like she always does. Although we are together, she seems to be hesitant.

Hiyo: However...it's as he says. Judging from the fact we haven't seen her since the Ayanashisai, that story is coherent.

Now, we can say this exactly because we have circumstantial evidence.

Harutsuge: But if she isn't a student, then what is she? Maybe she looks like that but is actually a teacher?

Sasamaru: No, the teachers would know that. I went to ask them again, but they said, "there are no advisers in the student council."

Harutsuge: Then, what in the world...

Hiyo: I'm sorry. It's because I joked about the school tradition of "the student council is a secret organization."

Harutsuge: No, it's not your fault, Hiyo-kun. I've talked to her several times. I had as many chances to ask as I wanted.

Araragi: Yes. I too thought the school tradition was fun.

Sasamaru: ...

If even this is an "act" by the student council...

Sasamaru: In any case, we have one conclusion. Though, we don't know how the student council is involved in all this.

Harutsuge: But, Sasamaru-kun. Isn't it...

Harutsuge glances at Araragi and...

Harutsuge: Isn't it hard to not suspect the student council?

...says this in an apologetic voice.

The fact that she is being apologetic is not only in consideration for Araragi.

Sasamaru: Well, we don't have proof.

Harutsuge: But...

Sasamaru: In any case, we'll know once we meet her.

Harutsuge: Well, that's true.

Sasamaru: It's all right. It's almost certain that the student council is involved in some way. But this doesn't mean it's in a bad way.

Sasamaru: Maybe they're trying to stop this situation that someone created. So, it makes sense we aren't seeing Waka-san. She's running around because of this...

Sasamaru: Ngh!?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: Ah...n-no, it's nothing.

What?

I feel a sudden pain.

Sasamaru: (It's the...)

It's the place I felt pain earlier.

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. So, the student council is...

Sasamaru: Urgh!

Hiyo: H-honey?

The pain is increasing more and more, not allowing my statement.

As if a thorn was thrust from inside my body every time I try to speak.

Harutsuge: I-In any case, let's return to the dorms. It's near here.

Sasamaru: N-no, no. I'm just a bit tired from running around.

Harutsuge: You idiot. You look pale.

Sasamaru: I'm fine, fine...

Sasamaru: Ah, which reminds me. We haven't searched over there.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan!?

Sasamaru: ...Phew.

It appears the pain has calmed down for now.

Sasamaru: (But, what is this?)

Nakarai: Nng!

Harutsuge: What's wrong?

Nakarai: Ah...well, I dunno what this is. Guess I'm in bad shape recently. It hurts everywhere.

Harutsuge: Is it a cold?

Nakarai: I...wonder. It feels like a cold, or maybe not.

I remember. Harutsuge said that Nakarai talked about it.

"Illness."

If this is really an "illness"...
does it also affect the body?

And this violent pain is it?

Sasamaru: (Then...how about everyone!?)

The moment I think this, I turn cold.

Hiyo: Honey! Honey!

Sasamaru: Ah, Hiyo. Sorry for making you look for me.

Hiyo: Honey. How are you feeling? Is your body okay?

Sasamaru: My body? Yeah, it's fine. Maybe I felt sick out of the blue because I was running around.

Hiyo: But your face is still...

Sasamaru: No, I'm good now after throwing up. Sorry there.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: It's nothing, really.

Araragi: Ah. Sasamaru-chan!

Sasamaru: Ah, Araragi too. Sorry.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: No, no. I'm sorry.

I must not let them know.
They will worry even more.

Telling them won't solve anything.

Everyone is in the same boat. No one would be in panic if talking about it would heal.

Hiyo: Are you really okay, honey?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: The boy is saying it's fine. You should guess his feelings, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: Ugh...yes.

Sasamaru: Sorry there.

Harutsuge: But...what will we do now?

There lies the problem.

Waka-san is the "contact."
We know this much, but we don't know where she is.

The "transparent student council's" transparency is still toying with us.

Harutsuge: Now, our only lead is the student council. Regardless of whether their stance is good or evil.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: If only we could find Waka-san.

This possibility is low.

If she wanted to show herself, she would have done it long ago.

Harutsuge: Since we haven't found her after searching this much, maybe she's no longer in the school.

While saying this, Harutsuge is with her arms crossed.
On her little finger, a ribbon.

Our promise from that day.

Sasamaru: (Yes. For Hiyo's sake, we will do it.)

We don't know the real shape of the student council, but there's no doubt they are involved somehow.

In this situation, where all doors are closed, we must return to the start, sort out our feelings, and...

Sasamaru: (Huh? Wait a minute.)

The student council is suspicious? No doubt they are involved somehow?

Sasamaru: (Then, what about Hiyo?)

At the present moment, we don't know if the student council is the ringleader. As I've once said, I don't want to think they're involved in a bad way, but...

...how is Hiyo involved?

First, Hiyo hasn't said "why it is her fault."

We didn't ask and avoided pursuing it further.

But one possibility emerges if we start thinking like this.

The student council members are mixed in the classes and not revealing themselves.

Sasamaru: (Don't tell me Hiyo is...?)

Is this why she said, "it's my fault"?
Because she's a member of the student council?

She is the student council member who slipped into the red team?

She's been keeping silent ever since we started suspecting the student council.

Sasamaru: ...

A-absurd.

I know Hiyo.
I know her since our childhood.

It's impossible that she is from the student council.

But you enter the student council after you enroll.

My perception is wrong.

She is not "the student council member who slipped into the red team." There's "the possibility that the student council invited a red team student."

We're prone to mistake this because it gives the impression of a secret organization, but a student council is a student council.

If they're working for a noble ideal, it wouldn't be strange if the diligent Hiyo endorsed them.

And if the student council has the rule of "you must not reveal that you're a member," she's simply following this.

Sasamaru: (Am I really...? Am I really thinking this?)

Then, even if there were a rule, why doesn't she say that she is a member despite revealing this much? This doesn't make sense.

Maybe there is a reason for her silence.

Like, "this is so painful, I want to at least reveal that it's my fault."

For example, if the student council caused this situation due to an "accident" or "coincidence" and not out of malice.

Then, what Hiyo said makes sense.

Sasamaru: (Nngh.)

No.
No, no, no!

My thoughts are falling in the wrong direction.

Hiyo being a student council member...this is just...

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Yes?

Good conduct, superior intellect.
There's nothing strange about Kumigami Hiyo being invited to the student council, the ones representing the students.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, no. It's nothing, nothing.

I was avoiding thinking about this. Ever since we swore to "forget" it.

Yes, we swore.

Engrave into your eyes your little finger's ribbon one more time!

Harutsuge: Huh?

At this moment, Harutsuge lets out a voice as if she noticed something.

Harutsuge: I thought a lot now. And noticed one "what if" possibility.

Sasamaru: What is it?

Harutsuge: Yes, yes. Hmm, it really feels coherent when you think about it.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Don't tell me...

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. Perhaps, are you a member of the student council?

Hiyo: Eh.

Harutsuge: This makes sense. Didn't you say the other day, "this situation is my fault"? But, following this line of thought, it's natural to think the student council is involved somehow.

Harutsuge is speaking exactly what I was thinking.

Harutsuge: Summing up, it makes sense to think that you're a member of the student council. How about it?

Hiyo: W-well...

Harutsuge: Long story short, you're deceiving us, aren't you?

Sasamaru: H-hey, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun said that, but I believe the student council is guilty. Or rather, it's foolish to think they might be innocent in all this.

Harutsuge: You are watching the school in this situation and sneering behind our backs, right? You're thinking, "serves you right," aren't you?

Hiyo: Ha-Harutsuge-sa...

Harutsuge: You cannot talk your way out. Isn't it easier to admit everything?

Sasamaru: Hey! Harutsu...

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan! We promised! To forget about that!

Araragi?

Maybe she noticed that it's natural to think that Hiyo is a student council member?

Harutsuge: Promise?

Araragi: Your pinky! Look at your pinky!

Harutsuge: My pi...

After moving her gaze, Harutsuge is taken aback.

Harutsuge: I-I'm sorry. Hiyo-kun.

Harutsuge is with a face about to cry.

Harutsuge: Sorry. I'm so sorry. I...what was I thinking...?

Harutsuge: This is horrible. I, the oldest one here, must stay strong, but...I'm sorry, Hiyo-kun. I'm sorry.

Hiyo: Don't mind.

Harutsuge: I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: ...

So, this is also the illness' fault?

The "discomfort" everyone was talking about.

The words of "different from usual."

Sasamaru: (Is this...what that means?)

Perhaps we simply didn't notice it.

We might have been cornered long ago.

Harutsuge: I'm sorry.

Hiyo: My goodness, Harutsuge-san. It's fine, really.

Sasamaru: ...

At this moment, I...

Sasamaru: Come to think of it, this situation happens a lot in movies and novels, right?

...tell this.

I feel we'll sink deeper and deeper if we keep being considerate.

Maybe we'll be able to chat with a smile if we joke about our state.

We can do this if we get together.

Hiyo: T-that's right. Abruptly being thrown into a closed space where you cannot return to your previous every day. And you have to spend your days there until rescue arrives.

Perhaps because she guessed my intention, Hiyo follows my lead.

Araragi: Yup, yup. Stories such as only children get drifted away to an inhabited island.

Araragi too.

Sasamaru: It's the "drifting into a solitary island." Many works have been made with this motif, so, it doesn't have to be strictly a solitary island.

Hiyo: At the start, feel perplexed with the abrupt situation, but gradually understand the situation in which they are.

Sasamaru: And they learn how to create their own homes and how to live there.

Hiyo: And, at times, opposing each other and scattering everyone apart.

Araragi: At the end, they make up, combine their forces, and overcome the hardships!

Harutsuge: Hmm.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: All alone with Hiyo-kun on a solitary island!?

I'm relieved. Harutsuge too joined.

Harutsuge: And our only choice is to warm each other with our bodies.

No, Harutsuge. You're going too fast.

Jeez. Everyone will worry if the person who always jokes around gets depressed.

Hiyo: However, the same situation does not mean a "drifting into a solitary island" scenario.

Sasamaru: Yeah. A solitary island on the distant seas, or a mountain cottage during a blizzard. Kinda mysterious.

Hiyo: A closed circle, isn't it?

Araragi: And the famous detective enters.

Harutsuge: Now that you mention, in her childhood, Araragi-kun wrote in her graduation essay, "my dream is to become a famous detective."

Araragi: And there you go again, revealing another embarrassing secret.

Which reminds me, we're in different grades, so, I've never seen Araragi's graduation essay. So, she wrote that, eh.

Sasamaru: Though, people get killed one after another in mystery scenarios.

Hiyo: In drifting scenarios, there's the example of the "Lord of the Flies." And the true story of the "Anatahan Island Incident."

Sasamaru: Get killed one by one in order, or start killing each other by some dispute.

Araragi: And the famous detective enters.

Sasamaru: Though, even if a famous detective could explain the case's truth, he cannot prevent it.

Araragi: Because the detective can't infer anything without an accident.

Harutsuge: That is kinda the truth of the world. Even the police can't start the investigation if there's no accident.

Hiyo: Yes. In most cases, a famous detective can save only the last one or two individuals who have become murder targets.

Araragi: That's a deep message: "Humans are not all-powerful. No matter how excellent one is, there is a limit in the number of people one can save."

Sasamaru: Who would have thought such a deep message was in mystery stories.

This chat is really fun.

We are in a situation that it wouldn't be strange if that actually happened.

This feeling is completely different from talking in a safe place about a distant country's incident.

Harutsuge: If this were a drifting scenario, it's about time for a conflict between friends to happen.

Araragi: And that unexpectedly develops into a gruesome accident.

Sasamaru: And the mood completely changes after it. It's really a rapid development.

Hiyo: Recently, they also call it an abrupt plot twist.

Harutsuge: In mystery scenarios, a few would be killed.

Araragi: Everyone is in fear of an indiscriminate murderer, but it's actually a personal grudge and only specific targets get killed.

Sasamaru: And to camouflage that, the criminal plays the role of a mysterious person who imitates a local legend.

Harutsuge: I am called "After-School Fantasist (limited to sexual ones)."

Sasamaru: Such a legend doesn't exist.

Hiyo: It'll be the worst if we get killed by such a murderer.

How fun.

Chatting with everyone while laughing is always fun.

Araragi: Yup, yup. And also...

Hiyo: Hehe.

No matter the place, no matter the situation...

...if we're together, it will be all right.

Harutsuge: That's right. And then...

Sasamaru: Ahahaha!

It's nothing.

Surprisingly, even this situation is fun once we get used to it.

Sasamaru: Yes, yes! Everyone should just be frigging killed!!

Huh?

Sasamaru: (What...am I...saying?)

...I'm smiling.

Everyone is smiling.

Sasamaru: (This is...wrong. We're not like this.)

We're not people who normally laugh at these things.

We're not people who get excited with such imprudent topics.

Sasamaru: (Is this the..."illness"?)

I shiver.

I feel like I re-confirmed the illness' dreadfulness.

So, we simply haven't noticed it.

We have been cornered since long ago.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

Wait a minute.

Suddenly, a question appears inside me.

//subchapter
"Nothing can be done"
November 23 (Monday)
With You, Here and Now,

The two manuals.

One is the school manual.

A manual written with harmless and inoffensive contents that everyone can agree with.

The other one is the student council manual.

Composed of senseless matters, it is a manual that makes all tilt their heads with "why did this thing get published?"

Everyone chose the "school manual."

But of course. When asked which one to use on their unsteady everyday basis, everyone arrives at this conclusion without thinking further.

The one we followed was the "student council manual."

I'm the one who suggested this.
I myself think it is absurd, but, for some reason, I couldn't help but choose it.

And everyone from the Four Noble Ones accepted it.

Then, our every day started.

And we noticed the effect the two manuals brought about.

But what is the reason for this?

We only know that "the student council manual suppresses the illness' progress."

Of course, we aren't specialists. We don't know "how we are able to suppress the illness' progress by following the student council manual."

But we can think about "what the student council manual is making us do."

Maybe even our minds panicked after we were thrown into this abrupt situation.

Or maybe we abandoned even the act of thinking, by answering "we'll never know it anyway" to the crazy relation of "we can suppress the illness by following the manual."

Sasamaru: (That's not like us.)

I am "Sasa."

Hiyo said this to me.
"A Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself."
"A Sasa that knows things the bamboo can never know."

I simply kept following it, without thinking about its meaning, believing "this is how it is."
Will I once more repeat this mistake?

Those days without light, when I simply lived as my father told me.

Sasamaru: (You miscalculated at the Ayanashisai because of these dull things.)

And who saved me then?
Without being arrogant or imposing, who helped me so naturally that no one noticed?

Sasamaru: (Think. You can almost see something.)

Now it's my turn.
Think for her sake.

Sasamaru: Nngh!

Suddenly running up my right arm, there is a pain like piercing it with a needle.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Although I space out, the pain isn't subsiding at all.

It's as if the pain that ran up my right arm broke through my shoulder, went around my neck and down my spine.

Hiyo: D-don't tell me, again...

Sasamaru: No, no. I'm still a bit tired.

Sasamaru: Ugh...ngh!

Shit...this again!

Again, at the very moment I think about not hurting Hiyo.

Sasamaru: (Don't...tell me...)

It's a very preposterous reasoning.

The contents written in the student council manual...

"The name is a code."

"Now, the people around, centered in your every day...a place where everyone gathers and spends most of their day. Be aware this is merely a gathering place."

"Throw away everything you always have with you."

...are these one.

All other entries are similar.

With one glance, you don't know if it has a meaning. You think it cannot possibly have a meaning and feel it's absurd to think about it.

But now, I really don't think it is meaningless.

Hiyo: I too was supported by your name.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Every time you sent me letters...every time I received your letters, every time I wrote your name...

Hiyo: ...I was reminded of you and was able to live through my every day.

Harutsuge: To feel like something from long ago despite not many days having passed is proof of our attachment...or so I heard.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Araragi: The manual, the manual.

Harutsuge: Ah.

Araragi: It's kinda sad. Maybe I mustn't think this.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge, is there anything else inside your wallet aside from money?

Harutsuge: A gold card.

Sasamaru: It's not that. Anything else?

Harutsuge: Yeah. There's the amulet my parents gave me when I got accepted at this school.

Sasamaru: That!

Harutsuge: ...I should throw this away?

Is such an illness really possible?

But this absurdity is now becoming reality.

Then...

Sasamaru: (Is this...what it means?)

This illness.

Sasamaru: ({\i1}It worsens with such conditions?{\i0})

Then, it is very...

...very, very sad.

Sasamaru: (The "bonds.")

The common point of all these entries is the bonds with others.

This manual is...

Sasamaru: (Isn't it saying to "sever your bonds with others"?)

In fact, this act is remarkably appearing as the illness' progress.

The more we accomplish its entries, the more bluntly the difference between those who followed the school issue manual...
No, between those who didn't follow the student council manual becomes apparent.

Summing up this "illness."

The more you think about someone...
The more you act for someone...

The more you act kind toward someone...the more it worsens.

...It's at this moment.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Again.

My somewhat distant past.

Like a promise that you forget during the busy every day, a strong force pulls my collar from behind, dragging me in.

But I don't care about it now.
I don't care about the past.

There is something I have to do.

I can't waste time here.

My wife became strange ever since my child married.

With an expression of brooding over desperately.

When I ask, she says, almost surprised, "it's nothing," and makes a smile.

However, she can't hide her pondering behavior when she's alone.

Worried, I question her several times, and she finally speaks out her sentiments.

"I'm scared."

At this moment, my body trembles with a startle.

I would never have thought my wife had the same worries as me.

But it's different.

My wife is scared about "our daughter being unable to bear a child."

Just as she couldn't quite bear one, she thinks maybe our daughter too will have the same anguish she once had.

I feel relieved, but, on the other hand, I feel enraged at my insensibility.

"How important the act of 'to bear a child' is to a woman." The one who realized this firsthand is none other than my wife.

"It will be fine."

I tightly embrace my wife.

I'm vexed at myself, able to do only this.

This is nothing more than mere consolation, but my wife seems a bit relieved.

Some time after that, our child became pregnant.

Our worries were unnecessary.

How much is my wife's happiness at this time?

Perhaps she's happier than when she became pregnant.

She is loved.

I believe so.

Our child and also the grandchild to be born too.

The birth will be blessed.

On this day, I finally think, "this is fine."

On this day, the weight I was always shouldering suddenly disappears.

I'm glad our child was born.

Our child became pregnant, becoming a person in charge of granting life to the next generation.

This is...

...indeed, the act of a human.

We too have "bonds" as parent and child.

However...

Aaah, however...

The unbelievable happens.

No. {\i1}What I believed somewhere in my heart{\i0} happens.

There is a discerning monk.

Our child is doubted as a "demoness."

He says that she tried to curse to death the husband's legal wife.

He says that she did the improper act of monopolizing the husband's affection and taking her place.

It is indeed abrupt, like a bolt out of the blue, but...

...somewhere in my heart, I was prepared for this, and, at the same time, I feared this more than anything.

It finally happened.

The most frightening event.

Without waiting for the delivery, our child is blamed as "demoness."

She avoids death penalty.

But she is exiled.

I...

As if the insides of my body had finally burst, I collapse onto the ground.

"Bonds."

We, parents and children, have the "bonds" as humans.

I am sure I heard the sound of these "bonds" snapping.

If I point to a certain place, this place immediately becomes "there."

If someone exists "there," this someone immediately becomes "someone existing there."

I, now, exist "there."

So, I am "myself existing there."

"I who exist there" stretch a thread from my body, for I exist there.

Looking closely, this thread is coiling around "someone else who exists there."

Looking even more closely, this thread isn't coiling around.

It is coiling around the thread extending from "I who exist there" and the thread extending from "someone else who exists there."

If this thread has a section tightly tied, there's also a loose knot that might undo itself at any moment.

There are as many knots as there are humans existing there.

Long story short, this is how human relations are. I think I heard this from someone, somewhere.

Then, what will happen if you sever these threads?

It's still harmless if it's out of the person's own will.

If you forcefully cut these threads with scissors so that not even the person himself notices this...

In short, these are the contents of the "student council manual."

The numerous entries, starting with "the name is a code," all of them...

...are "acts to sever the bonds with others."

I look up. There's the hanging banner lingering in the wind.

//text on screen
"With which color will you dye this pure world?"

Sasamaru: (Grant me courage once more.)

Sasamaru: (Strength to...overcome this situation!!)

One of the Yumemidori Academy selling points: "an environment where you can focus on creation."

Thinking now, this environment itself isolates us, produces a situation "where we are clueless about the outside," and becomes a hotbed that fosters our anxiety.

Sasamaru: (Still, I have to do it.)

This is no time to be crushed by anxiety.

Sasamaru: So, grant me "courage"!!

I run.

Sasamaru: (What do I do?)

What should I do?

Think about what you can do! Think with your insufficient head!

Jin Reiji.

He tried to do something about this situation and called out to everyone.

Gathering everyone at the gymnasium through the school broadcast...

Sasamaru: (That's right! The broadcast!)

I too will call out to everyone.
I'll ask everyone about this conclusion.

I don't care if they laugh at me.
There might be ones who will believe me.

And we might find a way to deal with this situation.

Sasamaru: The broadcasting room!

?: Aah, ahh, test, test.

Sasamaru: Eh?

That voice...just now.

?: Aah. Are they hearing this?

Just when I start running toward the broadcasting room...
what plunges into my ears is the school broadcast.

?: I'll start, assuming you're listening. Err, I am from the student council.

Waka-san!!

Waka: ...Wait. My sleeve got stuck.

That voice, that tone. No mistake, it's Waka-san.

The school broadcast.
Which means she is at the broadcasting room I'm now heading to?

Waka-san {\i1}of the student council{\i0} is there!?

Sasamaru: Waka-san!!

Bursting into the broadcast room, I search for Waka-san.

Waka: Hmm?

After noticing me, Waka-san interrupts the broadcast and comes forth.

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

I face Waka-san.

Waka: It's you. What is it?

Sasamaru: Where...were you...all this time?

Waka: What, were you looking for me?

Sasamaru: Looking...you say?

Waka: Ha hah. So, you're planning to kill me and have big sis all to yourself, aren't you?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: It won't be that easy. I'm the type who kills before being killed.

Sasamaru: Waka...san.

Waka: What, you're not snapping at me today?

The one over there is Waka-san, the same as usual.

I resolve myself and ask her.

Sasamaru: Waka-san...there's something I want to ask.

Waka: You may ask, but that doesn't mean I will answer.

Sasamaru: I read the...student council manual stored at the library.

Waka: Hmmmm.

Sasamaru: We are...acting while following it. And the illness...the illness softened a little compared to the other ones who didn't follow this manual.

Waka: Illness?

Sasamaru: Yes, the illness.

Waka: ...Hmm?

Sasamaru: Eh? I said the illness, that's now spreading in this school.

A thoroughly nasty illness.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Eh? Wa-Waka-san?

Looking at Waka-san tilting her head, I feel scared of her for one moment.

Sasamaru: Eh, Waka-san. Don't you know about the illness?

Waka: Unfortunately for you, I haven't gotten a single illness here.

Sasamaru: It's not that. It's the illness spreading at the school. It affects the mind...and the body.

Waka: Hmm. An illness, huh.

...What?

Who on earth am I talking to?

Waka: And? What do you want to ask me?

Sasamaru: So...you're from the student council.

Waka: Yes.

Sasamaru: Do you know something about this illness?

Waka: Why should the student council know about illness? We're not doctors, all right?

I'm going around in circles.
This conversation feels like it's happening but not on the same page.

Sasamaru: A...are you playing dumb? There's no way you don't know about an illness disturbing the school this much.

Waka: Is it the fact that you're withering?

Sasamaru: Withe...what?

Waka: I'm asking if it's about the fact that you are withering.

What is she saying?

Waka: And why are you asking me that?

Why?

Sasamaru: The manual...the student council issue manual is, well, very...

Waka: Very?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: What?

Sasamaru: Do you really...don't know?

Honestly, I'm starting to doubt what I am talking about.

I thought she was playing dumb, but I can't feel this behavior from her.

Waka-san has always had this slippery personality, but even taking this into consideration, I cannot feel that she's pretending not to know.

Waka-san certainly hates me, but this is a different matter.
She won't bring up this topic now.

Then...

Sasamaru: Don't tell me...you too have the symptoms of...

Why am I saying, "don't tell me"?

Everyone in this school has equally contracted the illness. Why didn't I think of this possibility?

Sasamaru: ...Sorry. That makes sense. You too are fighting against the illness.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Then, you may answer just what you can. Just tell me if it becomes painful. I'll stop.

I must not forget that we are the only ones with light symptoms.

But Waka-san is from the student council. She should be fine if she follows that manu...

...No, wait.
I'm not quite understanding all this.

For now, I'll ask one question at a time while following the proper order.

Sasamaru: What on earth is this illness? Waka-san, do you know about this?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: We noticed that we can delay the illness' progress if we follow the student council issue manual. Does the student council know about this?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: I haven't seen any signs of the student council ever since the Ayanashisai. Where were you all this time?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Is it...painful to speak?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Ngh!

Perhaps the small welling-up irritation becomes the trigger.
A muddy feeling surges from deep inside me.

Sasamaru: Say...something.

Stop it!

Don't try to criticize her.
Don't do it!

Sasamaru: There's an opinion that the student council is involved in this incident.

Do not get engulfed by the illness!

Now, of all times, keep yourself together.

You may get angry.
You may get impatient.
Words coming from feelings are still interpersonal.

But do not throw onto her words from succumbing to the illness!

Sasamaru: Do you...know...anything?

Maybe it's because I'm forcing it.

An unusual amount of sweat is rising up to the surface of my body. My heartbeat is so accelerated that I can feel a shortness of breath.

And also, the pain running through me.

Sasamaru: Urgh!

The pain is increasing.

Every time I feel pain, it gets heavier and more violent, as if overwriting the previous pain.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Shit.
Like hell I'll lose to this!

Sasamaru: Then, Waka-san. A different...question.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Waka-san...what were you about to say through the broadcast?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Sorry. I made you stop it halfway. Could you continue it?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-sa...

Waka: What do you want me to say?

Sasamaru: Nngh!

After these provoking words, the surging feelings spread all at once.

No.
No.
This isn't her intention.

She simply wants to know if I...if we have a clue.

Waka: "The student council knows about the phenomenon now happening in your bodies."

Waka: "Because the student council is participating in it."

Sasamaru: W...why are you...

Waka: Do you want me to say this?

Sasamaru: Why are you...provoking like that?

These are words as if she was doing it on purpose.
Is it the illness' fault that makes me think this?

Waka: I came to see it.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: Illness...huh.

After Waka-san silently mutters this...

Waka: The "illness" you speak of spread because a condition was fulfilled.

...she speaks out this.

Sasamaru: Wha...what is that about? Condition?

I knew it.
So, she knows something.

Waka: You should know about it.

Sasamaru: Wait...wait a minute. Waka-san, what are you talking...

Waka: I am speaking the words you so want me to say.

Sasamaru: ...

Sasamaru: So...this is the student council's doing?

Waka: You wanted to hear this, didn't you?

Sasamaru: It's...true, isn't it? So, you really...

Waka: The meaning those words indicate is correct. But they're a bit lacking if you wish for accuracy.

Sasamaru: The hell...you talking about...!

Waka: You don't need to understand. Now, you are experiencing it firsthand.

Sasamaru: Speak...in Japanese!

Waka: It's cliché, but it's good. Very good.

Sasamaru: Sh...shit.

My consciousness is getting hazy from the pain.

The pain is accelerating, as if its nature doesn't let it stop once it has started running.

So, all this is the student council's doing.

But then...
why?

Sasamaru: Why...did Hiyo...?

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: ...

Why did Hiyo say it was her fault?

Waka: Two.

Sasamaru: What?

Waka: I will answer only two of the questions you asked.

Waka: First. What you wanted me to say is correct. But the one who pulled the trigger is not the culprit you seek.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Waka: You are correct about the ones who prepared the stage. But there's a different individual who created this situation.

Sasamaru: So...there's another culprit?

Don't tell me...

That is...Hiyo?

Waka: Second.

Sasamaru: W-wait. What do you...

Waka: You asked, "what do you plan to say through the broadcast?" right? I'll answer you.

Waka: This is what I was planning to say.

Waka: "Help won't come no matter how much you wait."

Waka: "You can no longer leave here."

Waka: "No matter how much you struggle and shout, you {\i1}cannot do anything{\i0} about this situation."

Sasamaru: Waka...san.

Waka: Those who descended the mountain won't return. Even if they so want, they "cannot enter" here.

Waka: I collapsed the bridge to make it visually clear. Because you have the impression that "you cannot come to this school unless you use that bridge."

Sasamaru: ...

What...
is she...
What is she saying?

What on earth is she saying?

Waka: Ha hah.

I don't know, but, for some reason...

For some reason, it seems true.

Just like when I chose that manual, I have feelings to believe this.

Waka: Hahahahahaha.

So, I understand the meaning of her laughter.

Waka: So...wither away, feeble humans.

Sasamaru: WAKAAAAAAAAA!!

The moment I start running, Waka-san has already thrown herself out of the window.

Although she throws herself, the school is built like a temple. The window isn't floors above or anything.
When I place my hand on the window's frame, Waka-san is already nowhere to be seen.

Sasamaru: Shit!

What the...
What the hell...

Sasamaru: WHAT THE HELL IS THIIIIIIIIS!!!

//subchapter
It's your fault!
November 24 (Tuesday)
With You, Here and Now,

So, I...
even now, continue that 'playing house.'

I'm scared.

For me, this is something far, far more frightening than those sisters.

This body shivers for no reason.
It's far, far more frightening than the fear implanted in my childhood.

"The ending words."

I desire...

...that the "playing house" of that day lasts forever and ever.

I know I'm stupid for clinging to this.

It's a petty play from my childhood.
Nothing will change by ending it now.

Still, I desire...

...that the "playing house" doesn't end.

Using this as "reason," I've been beside him all this time.

Lacking in everything, I'm impudently standing beside him, a position beyond my reach. This is the result of hiding behind the childish reason of "the ending words haven't been said."

So, even now, I cannot change.

I can be beside him as long as the "ending words" aren't spoken.

This is the saying I have repeated hundreds, thousands of times inside me.

Words I am ashamed to say to others.

In brief, the "ending words" for me are...

{\i1}...as long as they are not chanted, they are an incantation for the spell to continue.{\i0}

Since then, his attitude has been strange.
It was right around Waka-san's broadcast.

When I thought Waka-san's broadcast was starting, it abruptly ceased.

Waka-san, who didn't show up all this time, had finally appeared. We, who were searching for the student council, immediately headed to the broadcast room, but...

...what we saw when we arrived was only him with {\i1}that{\i0} face.

He tried to let it slide with "it's nothing," but it was very clear that something had happened.

In the first place, where did Waka-san go?
Regarding this, he simply answered, "sorry."

His behavior is exactly the same from that time, right after the series of events with Shisoku Kiyo-san, whom he called "Aomai."

I know it.

He makes that face "when all hope is lost."

The next day, he opens his heavy mouth.

The contents are indeed of "all hope is lost."

His face, after speaking about what happened with Waka-san, is scorched in my eyes even now.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge-san and Araragi-san are speechless.

"Nothing can be done."

This reality is heavily weighting on them.

We said many things, but we were taking this situation too optimistically.
We were carefree on top of a sense of security called "we four are together," which may be rephrased with "the place's mood."

Everyone, dumbfounded, is telling this.

The space of us four.
Of the "Four Noble Ones."

Now, this is about to be crushed by this helpless situation.

No one is speaking.
The most eloquent here is the one singing the time with its two mouths called long and short hands: the clock.
It's exactly the same as after the interference incident.

Our relationship is far, far closer than it was back then, but...
what is here now is not "normal," it's "abnormal."

A different relationship and a different every day.

I wonder which one weights heavier on a person.

Hiyo: Everyone, are you hungry? I'll cook something.

I fire the first shot and stand up.
I learned with the previous incident that feeling sad doesn't help one bit.

That time, I was even able to tell Shisoku Kiyo-san all those words I could never say.

If one's actions can change the situation even a little bit, even I can be helpful.

Araragi: I-it's trueee. I'm so hungryyy.

And Araragi-san joins me.
I can tell from her expression that she isn't hungry.

Still, she speaks this because she has the same feelings as I.

She really is the "sun."

Harutsuge: That's true. I have a second stomach for Hiyo's cooking, even if I'm already full. I can eat three more meals of it.

A bit inarticulate, Harutsuge-san says this.

That's our elder sister.
The older sister has no choice but to keep herself together after the younger sisters say this.

Then, the next one...

Sasamaru: That's right. Sorry, Hiyo. I'll do it.

Hiyo: Honey, please relax yourself.

Sasamaru: I can't do that. No one had breakfast because I started this topic when we were supposed to be having it.

Hiyo: Please don't mind.

Sasamaru: No, let me take responsibility.

Harutsuge: Enough with that shotgun wedding chat. I simply want to eat Hiyo-kun's lovely cooking, that she will make just for me.

Hiyo: Unfortunately, I do not know the recipe of the meal you're talking about, Harutsuge-san.

Harutsuge: Ah, everyone. I'll let you eat together if you don't mind my leftovers. It's called sharing one's happiness.

Araragi: You're very fierce today, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: Human greed is frightening. You get used to pleasure and start seeking even stronger excitements.

Araragi: Summing up?

Harutsuge: Rebuke me with harsher and harsher words, Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: Should I take you to the police or to the doctor?

Sasamaru: If I had to choose, I'd take her to a monk. I think a strange one is possessing her.

The usual exchange.
Unchanging relationships.

This makes us relieved to some extent.

If this situation is due to the illness...

...the "Four Noble Ones" is indeed a medicine.

But this medicine is starting to become ineffective.

Until now, the medicine that, regardless of the situation, healed any illness at once, just like a panacea...

Hiyo: Well, everyone. Please help yourselves.

Sasamaru: Thanks for the food.

The two: Thanks for the food.

After courteously bowing, everyone takes one mouthful, and...

Sasamaru: It's good!

...as if they were waiting for it...

Harutsuge: Aah. This is our Hiyo-kun.

Araragi: Really. It's delicious. So delicious.

While listening to everyone's words, my chest aches.

Hiyo: Thank you very much.

Because I can see their feelings of striving to say "good words."

Everyone is forcefully striving to be cheerful.
They're striving to create a calm mood by exchanging kind words.

Because...

That's right.
We are pushing ourselves too hard.

We are earnestly striving to create a cheerful mood.

Because...

Sasamaru: Which reminds me, I had a strange dream yesterday.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, you were sleep-talking this morning.

Sasamaru: What did I say?

Araragi: You said, "Uuhh, uuuhh. Harutsuge's antenna is detachable...uuhhh."

Harutsuge: What dream was that?

Sasamaru: That's a nightmare, though. I think it was a dream of long ago.

Harutsuge: Hey, you just casually said that a dream I appear in is a nightmare.

Sasamaru: That's right. I remembered.

It was when I came to this school.

Along the road, I crossed paths with two children who were watching television in front of an electronics store.

Child A: Did you hear? They call that an "intellectual." What a stupid adult.

Child B: Don't say that. Adults have always been stupid.

Child B: They just want to feel better by deprecating us, the no-pressure ones. By believing they are different from children, they have an excuse for not fixing society in their era.

Child A: Hmm, so, they're searching for potential scapegoats.

Child B: That's not quite right. They're desperately living and contributing to society. But no one recognizes their values. Their work isn't being rewarded.

Child B: Just a single word can save them, but everyone is busy with themselves, without time to recognize others and say "those words." Such is the era they're living in.

Child A: Got it. So, the only choice is to praise themselves.

Child B: Yes. It's for this reason that the word "no-pressure" is used to deprecate. This might be necessary in order to maintain their superiority. But its essence is to discover value in their actions, a false...

Child B: Oops...no, no. I got a little excited. My mistake.

Child A: Hahaha. Sometimes it's necessary to get heated up. But we must go easy on the adults. Right now, we are standing on the road that they are living on.

Child B: You're right. We must have at least enough ability to satisfy their tiny prides. This humiliation is a small price to pay if they're able to live tomorrow with a smile.

Child A: We must reflect on this. Because I love my parents.

Child B: Me too. I love them. Well, let's go to my house and play some games. I won't lose, you hear?

Child A: Hahaha. I too won't lose.

Sasamaru: ...And that's how it was.

Harutsuge: What deep dream was that? And it even was a true story.

Araragi: Children nowadays are amazing.

Sasamaru: Yes, yes. And it turned into a nightmare at the end.

Harutsuge: So, it was a nightmare after all.

Sasamaru: I was being chased by a suspicious person who threw her antenna like a boomerang.

Harutsuge: Ha ha ha. Hey, Sasamaru-kun. How about opening an airhole in your hand?

Sasamaru: What introduction line is that?

Harutsuge: It's fine, it's fine. It'll just hurt like hell and leave an enormous after-effect.

Sasamaru: When you and Hiyo are sitting beside each other, you look like a set where one hurts and the other heals.

Harutsuge: And there you go again, trying to get Hiyo-kun to treat you.

Sasamaru: That's not something a treatment can solve.

Araragi: But I think Hiyo-chan fits this situation like a glove. She's saving everyone.

Harutsuge: Yes. When there's an illness, there's a nurse. It's Hiyo-kun's specialty.

Araragi: Yup, yup. Aah, but everyone might come again to spread the illness.

Yes, I'm sure we are pushing ourselves too hard.
We're earnestly striving to create a cheerful mood.

Because...

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun!

...we don't know when the illness will assault again.

Araragi: Eh.

No, we're already afflicted by the illness. It's better to call it a "seizure."

Harutsuge: ...

With a sad, and also painful expression, Harutsuge is looking at Araragi.

I know.

Everyone knows it's not Araragi's fault.

Araragi: I-I'm sorry. Hiyo-chan, I'm sorry!

Hiyo: No...it's all right.

On the verge of tears, Araragi is apologizing to Hiyo.

Sasamaru: (Shit!)

I'm thinking this, but I don't know when I'll say something thoughtless again.

Harutsuge, Araragi, and me.
We all, without exception, are feeling this illness infecting us.

We are acutely sensing this air.

Sasamaru: (But Hiyo seems relatively fine.)

I suddenly think this.

Her behavior is no different from usual. If it wasn't for the prejudice of "everyone is different from normal," she would appear the same as always.

Sasamaru: (Perhaps she has a medicine...and is having fun looking at us, who are out of our minds?)

I'm taken aback.

Sasamaru: You idiot!!

I punch my cheek with my fist.

You always hold down your strength when you try to punch yourself.
I am so irritated at myself that I feel hate for this bodily function.

Sasamaru: (There are things you may think and things you shouldn't!)

Harutsuge: ...

Hiyo: Hone...

Sasamaru: Ah, s-sorry. What am I doing, really?

And we're even having breakfast.

It's the breakfast Hiyo made while being considerate of everyone.

Araragi: uh...

Araragi is biting her lips and striving to hold back the tears.

This is the worst. Dammit.

Harutsuge: Everyone feels the same. So, everyone, don't mind it.

Harutsuge says this as if pondering on every single word.
As to not mistake the words.

Araragi: Yup...yup, yup.

I too think it's exactly as she says.

Sasamaru: Yeah. Everyone is the same.

Hiyo: Yes. We all feel the same way. No one is bothered.

Araragi: On that topic, Hiyo-chan. Your symptoms seem light. That's good.

Harutsuge: It's the fruit of her daily actions. Good deeds really pile up.

Araragi: Yup, yup.

Araragi: But Hiyo-chan got a bit carried away after I stepped back.

Hiyo: Eh.

Araragi: Yes, yes. Sasamaru-chan is all yooours.

Hiyo: ...

At this moment, Hiyo bites her lips.

And at the next moment, she shows her usual smile.

Araragi: Hmm? Why are you carelessly smiling, Hiyo-chan?

Araragi: Ah.

After Araragi suddenly opens her eyes...

...she slaps her cheeks.

Araragi: Uh, ah...

Very fast, tears are overflowing from her eyes.

Araragi: Uh...no, I can't...I can't take this.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun.

Harutsuge rushes over to Araragi.

After enveloping her as if consoling her, Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: I can't believe it. When are you going to be satisfied with that good-girl attitude?

Araragi: Harutsuge-cha...

Harutsuge: You make me sick.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: ...Eh?

And Harutsuge too, as if she had noticed the statement that has spilled from her mouth...

Harutsuge: S-sorry.

Almost stumbling, she leaves the living room.

And a dull sound comes from the hallway, as if she was punching herself.

Araragi: uh......ugh......nngg...

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Araragi: No...I can't take...it.

Araragi: Sorry...everyone, sorry.

Araragi rushes out of the living room.

Sasamaru: Araragi!!

Endure it.

The only thing I'm used to is to endure.

Hiyo: (I must endure it.)

{\i1}Because this is my fault.{\i0}

Hiyo: (So, I must not give in to the "illness.")

No matter what others say, I must never lose my composure.

It will take advantage if I lose my composure.
This "illness" will.

You may get hurt.
But do not ever lose.

I must not take any action that might hurt everyone.

Hiyo: (Yes. Endure it.)

I have nothing worthy of being proud about, but the only thing I'm used to is to endure.

Endure it.

Hiyo: Nngh!

A pain, as if my viscera were pierced from the inside, runs through me.

Hiyo: Ngh...uh...

Endure it.

Sasamaru: Araragi!!

After catching up to Araragi, I grab her hand.

Araragi: Waah...waaaaahh...

Sasamaru: Araragi.

I'll wait until she stops crying.

Meanwhile, I'll hold her hand the whole time.

Araragi: If...if I will keep saying those things, I'd rather die.

These are the feelings that spill from her mouth after she finally calms down.

Bending her body as if she was freezing with cold, Araragi appears very small.

Sasamaru: ...

I think, "aah, I am so pathetic."

Araragi was so cornered that she became like this.

She is a girl who brightly smiles at her surroundings, far more than others.

Despite this, I didn't notice that.

Sasamaru: Sorry, Araragi. I didn't notice it.

Sasamaru: I didn't notice you were enduring it. I couldn't notice you were enduring so much that you got cornered like this.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan...you don't have to apologize.

Araragi: Everyone is the same. Everyone is putting up with it. Everyone is enduring it.

Aah, she's right.

Araragi: But I just...

But of course.
Everyone is in the same boat.
It's exactly as she says.

There are no exceptions.
Everyone is under the same conditions.

But...
But still...

Sasamaru: You're an important person to me.

Araragi is startled at these words.

Sasamaru: You're an irreplaceable friend.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: So, I'm sorry. I'm sorry for not noticing. Sorry for not supporting you.

Hiyo and Harutsuge too.
And Araragi.

For me, they're all irreplaceable friends.

And they're trembling and crying, enough to appear small like this.

I find myself embracing Araragi.

Sasamaru: It's all right. It's all right.

What irresponsible words.

But, even if I search everywhere in my head, I cannot find any other appropriate words.

Sasamaru: Aren't we friends? We should just complement each other.

Araragi: Complement?

Sasamaru: If you say something wrong, I'll stop it.

Sasamaru: So, if I say something wrong, stop me, Araragi.

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: I, you, Hiyo, and Harutsuge. We four should simply complement each other.

Sasamaru: Isn't this what friends are all about?

Araragi: ...You're...right.

Sasamaru: Even before falling into this situation, we somehow solved things that we couldn't solve alone. We have something irreplaceable.

Sasamaru: So, it's all right.

Araragi: You're...right. We are the "Four Noble Ones," right!?

Sasamaru: Yes. We are the "Four Noble Ones"!!

Exactly.
Hurting each other, and forgiving each other every time.

The bonds we build like this are "friends."

So, we will be all right.

It will be all right.

//text on screen
LIAR

Sasamaru: Well...let's return, Araragi.

Araragi: Yup.

//text on screen
LIAR

Sasamaru: I'm not lying!

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: Ah...no, it's nothing.

//text on screen
LIAR

Sasamaru: I said I'm not...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Araragi: Hi-Hiyo-chan.

Hiyo: ...I'm sorry. I too was looking for Araragi-san...and...

Araragi: Ah, I-I was crying...and he was comforting me.

Hiyo: What are you talking about?

Hiyo: Ngh!

Sasamaru: Hiyo!?

Hiyo: I-it's nothing...ah, I'll re-heat the breakfast. It has gotten cold.

Hiyo: Ngh!

Sasamaru: Hey! Hiyo!

Hiyo: I'm...fine.

//text on screen
LIAR

Aah, this is bad.

I hear the sound.

It's the every day that I loved.

Unilaterally forcing our past relationship...

...feeling sorry, noticing I was building it anew.

There was a "change," there was a "growth."
What I had forgotten, what I had lost sight of.
The every day that I built after coming here.

Working hard, failing, being encouraged, succeeding.

Now, here is an every day, including all this.

My irreplaceable and loved every day...

...is falling apart.

Slowly, but abruptly, falling apart before my eyes.

//text on screen
LIAR

But I haven't lied.

Sasamaru: (Do not mistake it...Sasamaru.)

Yes, do not mistake it.
Do not ever mistake it again.

Sasamaru: (I know it.)

Yes, I know.

I know about...
their kindness.

Sasamaru: (You have mistaken it once. Sasamaru, you already learned it, didn't you?)

Accept the changed "now."

This is the place you belong to.
Start thinking about this.

If you have time to lament the changed "now" and yearn for the past, think about what you can do.

Do not ever push aside the "now" again.

I know this is just fooling myself.

Because I know their good points...

...more than anyone.

But I should be able to do it.

If I really "like" them...

If I really think of them as "friends"...I should be able to do it.

Sasamaru: (But of course. Who do you think I am?)

I am from the "Four Noble Ones," "a Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself."

I won't lose to anyone regarding the "Four Noble Ones."

Sasamaru: (Yes. I can do it. With these feelings of mine for them...)

Sasamaru: Hiyo!!

Araragi: Hiyo-chan!!

.........What are "feelings" of mine for them?

We take the collapsed Hiyo to the bedroom.

In order to let her use a room a bit more spacious, we decided for everyone to sleep in our respective rooms today.

The other two wanted to change Hiyo into something more comfortable, but Hiyo kept saying, "it's all right," "I'll soon stand up," and they missed the chance.

And now, we're taking turns in watching Hiyo.
She's finally sound asleep.

And like this, we are earnestly...

...Earnestly, earnestly, as if gathering our little remaining conscience, nursing Hiyo.

Sasamaru: (I am an idiot.)

Despite being asleep, Hiyo is painfully moaning.
This unbearable scene is rebuking me.

Thinking about it, Hiyo was the only one.

Hiyo was the only one who not even once let out harsh remarks.

Sasamaru: (She was the only one who didn't lose to the illness.)

I now realize its meaning.

That pain.

That pain as if my viscera were pierced from the inside.

I'm already certain.

Sasamaru: (That is the pain after we resist that arising dark urge.)

This dark urge itself is malice.

This malice becomes words to hurt others, discharging from our mouths.

So, the fact she not even once "lost to the illness" means...

Sasamaru: (The pain was tormenting Hiyo this whole time.)

Still, Hiyo never let it come to the surface.

This illness...
This malice doesn't corrode when we are alone.

It corrodes the heart exactly because we are with someone.

In short, Hiyo was this whole time enduring the pain in front of everyone.

Enduring that pain that gets stronger and stronger by overwriting pain over pain.

She kept enduring and, still, behaving as if nothing had changed.

Sasamaru: (And I thought Hiyo was the one with the lightest symptoms.)

I want to strangle myself to death for thinking this even a little.

She was enduring a pain that we...
that I cannot even imagine.

Sasamaru: (But if Hiyo is from the student council, I'm sure there's an escape route.)

Urgh.

The malice easily slips in.

It creates its space in our hearts faster than we can notice, before even considering enduring it or not.

Sasamaru: (Dam...mit...)

I too cannot stand it anymore.

I cannot stand this.

Hiyo: Ho...ney...

Surprised by her voice, I hurriedly rub the corner of my eyes.

Sasamaru: Hiyo! How good, you recovered consciousness.

Hiyo: Were you...crying...?

Sasamaru: N-no, no. Keep resting.

Hiyo: ...

I know. I can't lie to Hiyo.

But now, I can't make Hiyo worry.
Even if I know she's seeing through me.

Hiyo: Please...don't cry.

It appears Hiyo's consciousness is still hazy.

Love is simply being reflected in her somewhat hollow eyes.
As if her bare heart was there.

Hiyo: Even...if I can...wipe your...tears...

Hiyo: I cannot...stop...them.

Hiyo: ...I'm...still lacking...still lacking...

Hiyo: I...can't...catch up...to you.

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: I...am...sorry.

Hiyo.

Why?

Why are you so...

The question I've been repeating dozens...
...hundreds...
...thousands...
...of times.

I am not a human to be nursed as your "patient."

But you should have realized this long ago.

Sasamaru: Why...!

Even when I close my mouth, this question forcefully opens up my jaw.

This question, always, always reverberating inside me, increases in strength every time I doubt it, for it is a question I cannot ask.

And now, it is finally seeing the outside air.

Sasamaru: Why are you doing all this for me!?

Until now, no matter how much I clenched my teeth, similar questions have slipped from between them.

And every time, the same fixed words returned.

But I was unable to throw a so strong, so violent, so stark naked...
question at her.

Hiyo: Because...I like you.

Sasamaru: Eh...

Hiyo: Because...I love you.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: I...love you...ho...ney...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: I love you.

Hiyo is smiling, still with a hazy consciousness.

With that smile...
the same usual smile, as if forgiving everything about myself.

Sasamaru: St...stop screwing with me, dammit.

Aah, that's right.

"Love," of course, aah, of course.

So, this feeling is the feeling of "love."

Sasamaru: I love you too, dammit.

To realize it at this late...

To realize something so important after so long, after so much time...

How lost was the feeling of "love"?

Sorry.
I'm sorry.
I didn't realize it until now.

Despite it being in front of me, I didn't realize it.

It was simple.
It was easy.
I should simply be honest.

"I must learn from her."
"I'm indebted to her."
There was no need to think hard about it like this.

You always smiled at me.

Something so simple and easy.
Why is a confession so difficult?

It's hard to put the feeling of "like" into words.
It's hard to tell how much I like her.
I'm not confident that I can tell this even with thousands of words.

This feeling, about to overflow at any moment, is "love."

Of course this is beyond one's control.

Hiyo: Once more...

Hiyo: Once more...tell me once more...

Sasamaru: Yes!

I'll tell you as many times as you want.

With all my heart.

My valuable, so valuable, more valuable than anything.

Sasamaru: I...

//text on screen
LIAR

Eh.

Wait.

Wait.

This is an important moment.

I've finally realized it.
I finally was able to realize it.

Don't get in my way.

This is the most important moment in the whole world.

There is a dark urge, almost running up my throat.

Noisily, it is swelling up.

Sasamaru: (Stop! Stop it!!)

It won't reach, even if I scream with a hoarse voice.

For it is myself.
Something inside my heart.
The place it was born and grew in is my heart.

It is...my own malice, my feelings.

Sasamaru: (The little finger.)

Yes, look at the little finger.
There lies the "promise."
The valuable promise I made with my dear friends.

If I can remember this, it will be all right.

//text on screen
FORGET IT.

...What?

Aah...
Yes, that's right.

Hiyo: Ho...ney?

Sasamaru: That's...right. This angui...sh, aah.

Sasamaru: It's...pain...painful because...

Sasamaru: It's...your fault.

Hiyo: ...

//text on screen
"No...I can't help it."

Sasamaru: Stop screwing with me.

Hiyo: Ho...ney.

Stop it!

Sasamaru: Yes. Everything, this is all your fault.

Stop it! Stop it! Stop it!

Hiyo: Ho...honey?

//text on screen
Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it Stop it

//text on screen
STOP IT!!

Sasamaru: Isn't all this your damn fault!? Huh!?

Hiyo: Ah.

Sasamaru: "Ah" my ass! Stop fucking with me! I'm suffering like this...it's all...it's all!

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Why are you sleeping like a victim!? Huh? Apologize. Apologize to everyone! Apologize to me!

Sasamaru: Stand up right now and apologize to each one of us!!

......
...What...did I say?

Now...what did I just...

Hiyo is trying to stand up.

She is putting strength in her trembling arm and standing up.

{\i1}Because I said so.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Ah...ah...

I too am trembling again.

Although, my trembling is different from hers.

Different from her, nobly enduring it.

It's the trembling of a coward.

Sasamaru: ...ah...

{\i1}I hurt her.{\i0}

{\i1}I hurt the "Four Noble Ones."{\i0}

I...
hurt the "Four Noble Ones."

Unable to watch her, trying to stand up in this situation...

...I run away.

Unable to support her, still lying down, I run away.

Some time ago, I expressed the bonds between humans as "threads."

I said that the "student council manual" exists to "sever" these "threads."

Sasamaru: ...hah...

The feeling of "like" that I finally realized.

It is—somewhat embarrassing to say out loud, but—something everyone calls "passion."

In Japanese, the character for passion was originally written as "戀".

Unveiling the character for romantic love "戀", it is the character for speak "言" with threads "糸" on both sides and the heart "心" below.

It is expressing the "bonds between a man and a woman, entwined by each other's words, and producing a connected heart."

It's the feeling of "love" that I finally realized.

Sasamaru: Hah...hahh...

But I cannot return.

I betrayed.
I betrayed my "friends."
I broke the "promise."

...And also my own self, who treasured them more than anything.

Sasamaru: aaah......aaaahhhh...

I can no longer return.

I lost.
I lost.

I lost to the illness.
I lost to the illness and trampled on the hearts of everyone bravely opposing it.

I trampled on the heart of the one most important to me.

Sasamaru: AAAAAAHHHHH!!

Sasamaru: ...Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: Is he studying here?

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Could you tell me this?

Hiyo: Ah, err...well...

Sasamaru: Got it. Then, promise me one thing. If he ever makes you cry, be sure to tell me.

Die.

Die, Suu Sasamaru.

You bastard! You bastard!

You bastaaaaaaaaaaaard!!

You'll pay for this, Suu Sasamaru.

Sasamaru: It's all right. It's fine now.

Hiyo: waahh...waaahhh...

Sasamaru: I'm a fake "bamboo" but...I'll project you.

Sasamaru: Absolutely! I'll project you!

And I even made a promise.

More.
More.
More.
More. More.
More.
More.
More.
More.
More. More.
More.
More.
More.
More.
More. More
More.
More.

Sasamaru: Argh!!

A pain so violent that one cannot recognize the word "pain."
Gnawing the whole body, the pain is assembling its conspirators.

Sasamaru: Gah...argh.

What is stretching above my head after I fall down is the sky.

Uncountable hammers from the sky are striking me.

Sasamaru: Dam...mit.

Why am I so sturdy?

I want one or two broken bones.

Hurt me more.
Torment me more.

Sasamaru: uuuuggghhh!

It's no use.

Recalling Hiyo's crying face hurts more, far more than this!

I wonder...

I wonder if I'll be able to punish myself if I sleep just like this.

I wonder if I'll be able to rebuke myself, who spat on my benefactor and turned away from our vow of "treasuring it."

Treasuring...the girl I like.

I made the girl I like cry. Grant me pain.

I won't make her sad.

(Ah...)

I won't make my wife sad.

(This...again.)

I keep acting brave.

No matter if it is unsightly or laughable, or how much others laugh it off as false courage...

I will never make my wife sad.

(So, you too..."like" her.)

It is not my daughter's fault.

It is not my daughter's fault.

It is not my daughter's fault.

I keep telling myself this.

And keep making a smile in front of my wife.

Aah, this smiling mask is already affixed, and I might not be able to take it off.

(...Your "like" is...)

(Your "like" is something that is far ahead of this feeling I harbor.)

A new life in a new land.

So, the husband arranged this.

The place chosen for exile was a quiet land deep in the mountains.

A sin is a sin.

However, it doesn't change the fact that I loved her.

At least have a peaceful life in these lands.

...After feeling this, I break in tears.

Before I realize, the number of times I fall ill have increased.

It appears the repeated anxieties ruined my health.

And in a time like this...how worthless.

I am the only one who can protect my family. What am I doing?

After I slip out of bed, almost crawling, and stand up, I see...

My child being worshiped by the mountain villagers.

Wise and blindly beautiful.

For the mountain villagers, it's as if she was depicted as a living god.

But, for my eyes...

For my eyes, what is depicted is something unnatural.

The reason she is being worshiped is by no means a holy one.

To me, it simply appears as the act of the devil.

...Is this too your doing, my child?

What will you desire now?

What will you scheme now?

What will you plot now?

It's not that, is it?

You're being honored and worshiped because of your inborn beauty and kind heart.

Isn't it so?

May I believe this?

My child granted a name to that uncivilized village.

For an outsider, it might have seemed like the wisdom of an educated person.

But for me, the {\i1}capital's name{\i0} my daughter gave is simply proof of adherence to luxury and authority.

My child, what is your wish?

What are you scheming?

What are you plotting?

...I'm already at my limit.

//subchapter
The Students of the Yumemidori Academy
November 25 (Wednesday)
With You, Here and Now,

Pregnant, my child finally gave birth.

Born into this world, our first grandchild.

...A grandchild.

At this moment, when I hesitate in looking at my grandchild's face, I'm already a failure as a grandfather.

Inside this air enveloped by relief, where everyone expresses words of praise...

...I'm the only one assaulted by a chill.

I feel the sprouts of despair budding.

My grandchild's face reflected in my eyes...

...resembles my child very much.

While knowing that all newborns aren't so different, my grandchild makes me recall my child.

The grandchild has no sin.

This is obvious.

This is not possible.

I know this is something obvious, but I, about to be crushed by the overwhelming anxiety, am strange.

"Oh, God.

Do not mistake with whom the sin lies."

Once now...

...I strongly tell this.

Despite knowing that I'm making a mistake the moment I {\i1}tell this.{\i0}

Still, this is the only way I can keep my composure.

I'll face my grandchild.

And also face my daughter.

I know with whom the sin lies.

Then, I'll accept everything and believe.

After deciding this, a "rumor" plunges into my ears.

"Every night, my child becomes a night burglar, devastating neighboring villages."

Being worshiped at this village while, behind the scenes, pillaging neighboring villages as much as possible.

Everyone in the village took that as a meaningless rumor.

Resented by this feeling of having their treasured existence sullied, they even blame anyone who brings up such rumors.

My determination is crumbling.

I can't discard this rumor as "something meaningless" like everyone does.

Did she become quiet because she was pregnant?

Did she show her true colors after giving birth?

Disbelief arises.

Night burglar?

What for?

Is she saving funds to restore the capital?

Or is she gathering power to take revenge on the capital?

A demoness?

My child, what do you desire?

What do you scheme?

What do you plan?

Aah.

Aaaaaaahhhhh.

AAAaaaaaaAAAAaaahhhHHHhhHhh......

//text on screen
..............................not.

//text on screen
...............must not.

//text on screen
You must not grant the "Crying Devil's" wish.

//text on screen
By withering, the leaves are ending the devil's kotodama.

//text on screen
...If...

//text on screen
...If you do grant it...

//text on screen
{\i1}Cruel words{\i0} will overflow from the trees.

Sasamaru: (That...just now.)

The rain has stopped.

The setting sun has risen before I noticed, and the morning that tells the waking has come.

Letting out squeaks like moving the joints of a rusted toy, I raise my body.

My unfortunately sturdy body.
To my luck, I haven't caught even a cold.
Only the pain in the joints exists.

Sasamaru: ...

What...did it say?

I must not grant the..."Crying Devil's" wish?

The "Crying Devil"...
is this school's tale that I heard from Hiyo.

It is a devil that likes the autumn, but, since it is a devil, it can only do evil.

And the trees withered.

The "crying devil's" wish is...
to see...the "autumn"?

Sasamaru: (The autumn?)

I must not...bring the autumn?

There's also the spring...
the summer...
and the winter.

But this school lacks only the "autumn."

I brought over this season, that got separated from its friends.

And I went out of my way to bring it to this school, that had lost it.

Sasamaru: (And...if I bring it?)

"{\i1}Cruel words{\i0} will overflow from the trees."

Does...that mean...

Elderly teacher: Do you know about the "Crying Devil"?

Sasamaru: Ah, yes. It's a legend passed down in this school, isn't it?

Elderly teacher: Yes. The truth is, some say that actually happened. And I believe this.

Sasamaru: Ah, okay.

Elderly teacher: Did you notice? If you compare the "Crying Devil" and the school's present situation, there are too many coincidences, correct?

Elderly teacher: I think that the "devil's kotodama" in this story might be a local disease.

The "illness"?

Then...

Then, the one who scattered this "illness" here was...me?

Sasamaru: (This is my fault!?)

Hiyo: The "illness" now spreading inside this school...

Hiyo: ...this is all my fault.

Hiyo had noticed this?
And she said that because she noticed?

But what for?

"What for?" It's...

...to protect me...

Sasamaru: Aaah...aaaaahhhhh!!

What a...
What in the world have I done!?

Sasamaru: Aaaaahhhh! Aaaaahhhhhh!!

It is I who must be blamed.

The one who must be spit on, thrown rocks at, and become a target of contempt is myself.

Sasamaru: Isn't all this your damn fault!? Huh!?

Hiyo: Ah.

Sasamaru: "Ah" my ass! Stop fucking with me! I'm suffering like this...it's all...it's all!

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Why are you sleeping like a victim!? Huh? Apologize. Apologize to everyone! Apologize to me!

Sasamaru: Stand up right now and apologize to each one of us!!

Despite this, I...
I...

"Die."

I truly think this for the first time in my life.

Not even once has this feeling sprouted in me.

There were times I thought I had no value.
Several times.
Enough to get fed up with this.

But this is the first time I think of "wanting to kill."

The one standing there is, just like that time when I noticed Hiyo's feelings...

Aomai: Bro.

Sasamaru: Aomai.

Aomai: Come.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aomai: Just come.

The place she leads me to is the blue team's dormitory.

Its exterior is no different from our red team's dormitory.

Despite being barely able to tell the differences from just my visual information, for some reason, I know it is "undoubtedly different" from our dormitory.

Sasamaru: ...

Now, I realize: that dorm "has become the home I return to."

Now, when I have lost my right to return to it.

Sasamaru: (How foolish.)

Really foolish.
Helplessly foolish.

I am, at all times, a big fool beyond saving.

Aomai: Over here.

Then, with Aomai pulling my hand, I enter the dormitory.

She leads me to one room.

Sasamaru: Aone!

In here, there is Aone, lying down while painfully letting out cold sweat.

Sasamaru: Aone! What happened!?

There's no doubt about what happened.

What a stupid question this is. Of course she's afflicted by the illness.

Aomai: Now, everyone in the school is...like this.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Aomai: Few are the ones who can stand up. Each one is different, but most of us are unable to move like this. They can only lie down and wait for help that who knows when it's coming.

Sasamaru: ...

...What a thing.

So, the situation has advanced this far.

Sasamaru: Aone.

So, the illness forced even her to bed.

Each sweat drop, almost showing what is eating into her...

...tightens my chest.

Yes, {\i1}this{\i0} chest.

Sasamaru: (It's my...)

...My fault.

It's too heavy.
Too heavy to shoulder.

Now, when the events happening at the school have become "someone's fault," all of its responsibility is weighting on me.

Male Student A: It's your fault!!

Male Student A: What will you do!? How will you take responsibility for this!?

Male Student C: Stop screwing with us! Why did you do something like this!?

Female Student A: Did we do something to you!?

...I'm such an idiot.

A helpless idiot.
Trash.

Aomai: You criticized.

Sasamaru: Eh.

I tremble my body at these words.

Aomai: You criticized sis, didn't you? And she was even suffering like this.

Sasamaru: Stop screwing around!!

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: It's because you hurt her! She became like that because you made her suffer!!

That's right, I...
didn't notice this illness' pain because our symptoms were light.

I didn't notice the meaning of "the ones around are strange." I didn't notice the meaning of "discomfort."

At that time, I criticized Aone's remarks.

And I didn't know if she said that out of her own free will or nor.

No, I now...
know.

Is the girl lying in front of me a person who can say that?
I know this.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Even so, she said, "I'm sorry," back then.

She even said, "thanks for scolding me."

Sasamaru: I'm sorry!

This is how she...
how Shisoku Norika is.

Aomai: I don't want you to apologize.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: Give her a kiss.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aomai: Sis has always liked you.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Aomai: That day, sis was actually unsteady. I called her against her will.

Aomai: She pushed herself too hard after knowing you were there. She was on the verge of falling apart, but she desperately stood up, wanting to be with you.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: If you feel sorry, give her a kiss.

...Like?

Aone...likes me?

Sasamaru: ...

Several feelings whirl inside my head.

Everyone suffering, and Aone that day, and this is all my fault...
And also...

And also...

Sasamaru: ...I'm sorry. I can't do it.

Aomai: Why?

Sasamaru: Well...

Aomai: Because there's someone you like?

I tightly bite my lips.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Aomai: Hiyokel?

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: Tell me.

Sasamaru: Yeah, that's right. It's Hiyo.

Aomai: Then, why aren't you beside Hiyokel?

Sasamaru: Ngh.

Aomai: Everyone is in this state. Everyone in the school is. Hiyokel should be too.

Aomai: But why?

Sasamaru: ...I have no right to be beside her.

Aomai: Right? You were always together in the past. All the time together when we were kids. Why that now?

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: You lost your...right?

Sasamaru: Yes.

Sasamaru: Yes. We were always together. Always, always...always together, but now, I lost my right. I destroyed something important.

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: I can no longer stay beside Hiyo. I must not stay.

Aomai: Then, accept sis' feelings.

Sasamaru: Well...

Aomai: You can't be together with Hiyokel anymore, right?

Sasamaru: Sorry. But I already noticed it. I can't lie to the feelings I noticed.

Sasamaru: Not even once do I want to lie to them.

Aomai: Even if not together?

Sasamaru: Exactly.

Aomai: You're an idiot.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

I think I'm simply selfish rather than an idiot.

Despite causing this situation...

Aomai: "If I had to compare, that's surely the 'morning color'."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aomai: "The red leaves floating in the twilight are like the morning color."

Sasamaru: Wa-wait a minute. That's our...

Aomai: Only you should know this?

Sasamaru: Y-yeah.

Aomai: Don't be so suspicious. None of you told me this.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: Also, I wasn't eavesdropping on it.

Sasamaru: Then...

Aomai: On that day, at that place, we sisters were there, too.

Aomai: Sis was always waiting for a chance to apologize.

Apologize?

Sasamaru: To...Hiyo?

This is the only person I can think of.

Aomai swiftly nods at my words.

Aomai: Sis thought it was her duty to do that. She thought our parents would be happy with it.

Sasamaru: Her duty?

To bully was her duty?

Aomai: Yes. A natural obligation as someone born into the Shisoku household.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Aomai: The Shisoku household is a family of doctors. With a very, very old history. Yes, always quarreling with the Kumigami household, a similar family of doctors, due to differences in their methods.

Aomai: Now, I can tell it is just a "difference in methods," a "how to behave as a doctor." But in those days, I didn't know this.

Aomai: I simply thought, "those from the Kumigami household are bad." Bad guys who always troubled my father and mother, my grandfather and my grandmother, and my ancestors.

Sasamaru: ...

Parents.
And children.

For the children, their parents' values themselves are their "common sense."

Thinking again upon my home, my chest throbs in pain.

Aomai: So, sis wanted to be useful to the family...and thought of defeating the "bad guys." She said, "our parents will be happy, they will praise me."

Sasamaru: That's why the...bullying?

Aomai: In those days, sis couldn't think of any other way.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: But that was a "bad thing."

Aomai: ...After that, sis cried: "I was the bad one."

Sasamaru: ...

My memories of those days are really fragmented.

But, thinking back upon it, Aone, together with Aomai, was bullying Hiyo, but...

Sasamaru: (Did they bully anyone else?)

No matter how much I search my fragmented memories, such an image isn't coming up.

Sasamaru: (So, Aone...)

...was targeting only Hiyo.

Targeting Hiyo, the daughter of the Kumigami household—a family they have been quarreling with for generations—as a person from the Shisoku household.

...While believing this act would be useful to her home.

But that was wrong.

Realizing her mistake, she...

Sasamaru: She wanted to...apologize?

Aone quickly nods.

Aomai: That's why sis secretly started peeking at you all.

Of course, the "wrong doing" was the one toward Hiyo.

Naturally, she wanted to apologize to "Hiyo" and not to "us."

Aomai: But when she approached Hiyokel when she was alone, she always ran away.

Aomai: So, sis...

Aone: ...Never changing, eh.

"Never changing."

Those words Aone indifferently said.

She wasn't irritated at Hiyo.

But toward herself, who "made Hiyo like that."

Sasamaru: So...she watched us?

Aomai: Yes. Sis started watching you. Searching for a chance to apologize.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: And then, one day...

"Oh my, what a coincidence meeting you here."

Those were words arranged beforehand.

Always, always looking for a chance, but she ran away if she approached. But she still didn't give up.
And thus, time passed.

It was a passage of time that, for an outsider, would be "too late."

But for the person herself, this never becomes "too late."
The more time passed, the more her impatience grew. But now that it has come to this, she'll only break the ice unless it's a very unique opportunity.

At that time, she heard that they would all go afar.

Although they said going afar, they were still children. It wasn't something so exaggerated.
But, for her, the time of "this is my last chance" had finally arrived.

To appear before them while feigning coincidence.

She already knew how it was at school.
But, on a trip, something different might happen.
That was similar to a last chance.

"Oh my, what a coincidence meeting you here."

Searching for a chance to say these words, she was always following them.

Secretly, so they didn't notice her.
But always being very careful as to not be found.

But the chance to say those words didn't come.

They became lost.

And, of course, they both became lost too.
The sun had started setting. It was no longer time to feign coincidence and try to apologize.

And they finally arrived at that place.

And, at that scenery.

Aomai: ...Hey. Do you remember what you said that day?

Her eyes are as if that day's scenery was scorched on them.

Aomai: You said this.

Sasamaru: Someday, I want to turn this scenery into a painting.

Words spoken so naturally.

As if those words were part of the landscape itself.

Sasamaru: I want to give it shape.

That day was the first time I put my wish into words.

I didn't want someone to grant it for me.

It was the first time I "wanted to grant" the wish with my own hands.

With my own hands, I wanted to give shape to that scenery, where everyone who granted me my wish was.

Aomai: I guess that had a great meaning to you, but...

Aomai: ...it also had a great effect on the others who were there that day.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Yes.
She said that they are a family of doctors.

Of course, one born into this home won't always choose the path to succeed in the family business.

We, who went to the same school in childhood, are all assembled here like this. How low is the probability of such a coincidence?

Sasamaru: W-wait a minute. That means...

Aomai: Yes. It was your words that made sis aspire to become an artist.

What a...

Aomai: The cue for a child to have a dream is always simple. But sis has always treasured this feeling. Until it became a real "dream."

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: And then, she re-encountered you at this school.

Sasamaru: But why...this school?

Aomai: Isn't that the same as you? Anyone aspiring to become an artist dreams of coming to this school.

Aomai: Do you know how happy sis was when she re-encountered you?

Aomai: She worked so hard, so hard. And finally obtained the ticket to her dream. And then, the happiness of being able to re-encounter the person who gave her a dream.

Aomai: Also, it was the person sis was always grateful to. The one who taught her that what she was doing was a "bad thing." The one who stopped her from being a "bad kid."

Aomai: Sis has always been grateful to you. She kept improving herself. For the day she could meet you once more...for the day she could see you again.

Aomai: Herself, who is not a "bad kid." Herself, who became a "good kid."

Aomai: There's nothing strange if this feeling somehow changed from gratitude to love.

Aomai: Sis never properly apologized. She was always, always regretful of this.

Aone: Hey, you over there.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: Yes. You, looking around and acting suspiciously.

I-it's...me, right?

The moment I turn over...

For some reason, the girl gasps after our eyes meet.

Aomai: It was the first time I saw sis all energetic like that.

With caring and somewhat warm eyes, Aomai chuckles.

Aomai: I knew the red team had a student who never came to school, but I didn't know it was you. The red team students didn't talk about it. And Hiyokel never approached us.

Aomai: Sis was at her wits' end. She knew you were close, but she didn't know what to do.

Aomai: But, because it was you, she wanted you to recognize her. "I came this far." "I won last year."

Aomai: She wanted you, who gave her a motive, to recognize her.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: Bro.

Sasamaru: Yes.

Aomai: Don't get her wrong. Accept her feelings.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: ...Bro.

Sasamaru: I...don't have that right.

Aomai: But why?

Sasamaru: You just said that "I stopped her," that she didn't become a "bad kid."

Sasamaru: If this is the reason for it, I have no right to be liked by Aone.

Sasamaru: Because I didn't "try to stop the bullying." Nor "tried to correct the misunderstanding," as she interpreted. I just...

Aomai: ...Don't say that.

Sasamaru: But I...

Aomai: The truth doesn't matter. Your feelings when you did that don't matter now.

Aomai: What's important is that sis likes you. Even now, at this moment, I'm sure she is thinking about you.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: I'm not a priest. I won't listen to your confession.

Aomai: As her sister, I'm simply asking you, the person she loves.

Sasamaru: You are...

Aomai: Selfish? I know.

Aomai: I'm selfish, unfair, underhanded, and willing to do anything for my objectives. Nothing new, right?

A discomfort.

What several people felt in this school is now emerging here, too.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: Right?

But this is...

...{\i1}a discomfort completely opposite{\i0} to the one so far.

Aomai's behavior, different from usual.

What stood out from the usual her was that you couldn't see her true feelings from her actions.

I wasn't able to sympathize nor agree with what she was saying nor her reasons. It was a presence I couldn't quite grasp its real shape.

If I say this, others might make fun of me as characteristic of an old man, but...
this feels like the generation gap felt in a conversation between two people of ages very far apart.

But now, she doesn't have this.

What I'm feeling when talking to her is that there's a full-fledged girl there.

Sasamaru: (It's as if...)

...As if the girl now was the real Shisoku Kiyo.

Aomai: ...What?

Sasamaru: No, I feel you're different from the usual you.

Aomai: Ah.

After I point this out, she, as if wanting to say "oh, no"...

...makes the same expression as always.

Sasamaru: ...

She...

Sasamaru: I know you...are requesting this to me while thinking of your sister.

Aomai: Did you understand her feelings?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aomai: Then...

Sasamaru: But you haven't spoken your true feelings to me.

Aomai: Eh?

Sasamaru: Who are you?

Aomai: What...are you saying?

Sasamaru: I too think that. "What on earth am I saying?"

Sasamaru: But, is the one before me really Shisoku Kiyo-san?

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: If a 'you' who is not 'you' is talking to me, then, not matter what I say, I won't be talking to you.

Sasamaru: Therefore, I must doubt the existence of this 'you' who isn't you. And at the same time, I feel that your "request" has some sort of purpose.

Aomai: What I said...is true. Sis is...

Sasamaru: Are those your words? Or words of the 'you' who isn't you?

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: I don't think your story is not true. But...

Aomai: {\i1}So, you won't hear my request if I'm not myself?{\i0}

Sasamaru: Yes. You called it a "request," but the 'you' who isn't you is simply threatening me.

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: I'll say it as many times as you want. I like Hi...

Aomai: ...Stop.

Aomai: Don't say that here. Sis might be listening.

Sasamaru: ...

I myself don't know what I'm talking about.

But I feel that her feelings for her sister are real.

Eventually, Aomai slowly opens up.

Aomai: ...Hey. Do you know what it means to someone born into a historical house of doctors to aspire to become an artist?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aomai: When sis said, "I want to become an artist"...our parents were very against it. But of course. Our parents were sure she would become a doctor.

Aomai: But, as a result, we are now here. For our parents, this situation shouldn't have happened.

Sasamaru: Shouldn't have...happened?

This curious phrasing bothers me.

Aomai: Yes. Because our parents allowed her to enter this school with the condition that "I too enroll at the Yumemidori Academy with her."

Sasamaru: You...together?

Aomai: Yes. Our parents thrust an impossible condition. Sis seriously strove for her future. So, our parents thought, "what if."

Aomai: But I was different. I didn't have any interest in art until then. I hadn't even done a sketch. They must have thought, "she'll fail with this condition," and "she'll give up."

Aomai: They thrust hope but plan things so it goes just as they want. A very nasty method.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: But it was for sis' sake. Our parents actually said all that to make sis give up. So, I thought they wouldn't back down if I got approved.

Aomai: So, I...

Sasamaru: Wait. I know that you worked hard. And you're actually here. You must have some talent.

Sasamaru: But this story is lacking one matter.

Aomai: Lacking?

Sasamaru: What about your feelings?

Sasamaru: Your parents threw that unreasonable demand, but you worked for the sake of your sister. I understand this...though, you might get angry if I casually say this. But I get your point.

Aomai: ...

Sasamaru: But you didn't have any interest in it, right? It was Aone who wished to enroll at the Yumemidori Academy. Despite this, why did you come here?

Aomai: How?

Aomai makes an expression of "why are you doubting that?"

Aomai: It's simple. It's because I like sis.

She states this.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: It's really just this.

Sasamaru: No. I'm not doubting it. I'm simply surprised that you can say that so smoothly.

Aomai: Really?

Sasamaru: Isn't it a big decision about your future?

Aomai: It's for sis' sake. It's no big deal.

Sasamaru: ...

This statement surprises me.

Aomai: Sis too was bothered by this. Sis was about to give up when our parents thrust that condition at her.

Aomai: Aside if I would get approved or not, she lamented that I got involved in it. And she should have gotten angry at our parents for making that unreasonable demand.

I really feel a "discomfort" in her way of speaking.

...In her words, explaining an obvious truth.

Aomai: But for me, I didn't care about this. I can be useful to sis. For me, this is enough reason to work hard.

Aomai is speaking something outstanding, as if it was nothing.

Sasamaru: All the effort you put is something I cannot ever imagine. But...

Aomai: You see, I have been living for sis.

Looking at her sister lying down, Aomai confirms that she's sleeping and...

Aomai: This is what you wanted to hear, isn't it? It's fine. If this makes you agree and be kind to sis, I'll talk.

...says this.

Aomai: But, did you forget about what you once said?

Sasamaru: What I said?

Aomai: Yes. You once said this.

Aomai: "A good person will appear if there's a bad person."

Sasamaru: Ah.

I might...
have said that.

I couldn't bear that a "good kid" like Hiyo was going through the same thing as me. I might have mixed that in my words when I tried to stop their misunderstanding.

The meaning of the words, "a good person won't become one if the world only has good people. They only becomes one when there is a bad person."

Simply put, "a good person stands out because there's a bad person."

I was always a bad kid. I wanted to say that Hiyo wasn't so, that she was a friend of the good kids. It was one of the complaints when I was stating all the words I knew.

Sasamaru: S-so, you took those words seriously?

Aomai: I didn't think about it when I heard it.

Aomai: But it's another story if it's the person sis likes.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: I remembered those words. It kinda left an impression.

Aomai: After that, sis realized she liked you. And I wanted to be useful to her.

Sasamaru: So...you put it into action?

Aomai: Yes. The more I become a "bad kid," the more sis, the "good kid," will stand out. You might start liking sis.

Aomai: Because you like "good kids," don't you? Even I can see through this.

Sasamaru: ...

I'm speechless.

My words have changed her life.

This is a...

Aomai: Ah. You don't have to feel responsible for it. I did this out of my own free will.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: This is the end of my story. Again, I "request," bro.

Aomai: Please. Kiss her.

Sasamaru: I...

Aomai: Sis is a "good kid." She became a very "good kid."

Aomai: She became a "good kid" as much as I've become a "bad kid."

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: So...please. Accept her feelings.

Sasamaru: ...

Aomai: Please.

Can I refuse?

Can I refuse her?

What she is doing is wrong.
This is no different from blackmail.

But it's my fault she became a person who chose this method.

I...

I...

Aone: Stop...it.

Sasamaru: ...!

Aone: Stop it...Kiyo.

Aomai: S-sis?

With a pale face, Aone tries to stand up with her powerless arm.
In panic, Aomai rushes over to her and holds her.

Aomai: W...were you...listening?

Aone: ...

Aomai: S-sis.

Aone: ...I knew.

Aomai: Eh.

Aone: Somehow...I noticed it.

Aone: I...have always obtained what I wanted.

Aone: At first, I didn't suspect. I obtained it without any effort. I could only think that "I got lucky."

Aone: But, after several times, little by little, I started thinking it was strange.

Aone: At that time, when I said to our parents that I wanted to come to this school...

It's the "condition" the parents of the blue sisters said.

Aone: You didn't display any interest, but, when you, out of nowhere, said, "I too wanna go," I thought that "maybe."

Aone: Because, Kiyo. You said that "our parents made that condition because you said you wanted to go too."

Aone: You said that because...I was bothered that you got involved, didn't you?

Aomai: ...

She knew it.
She noticed it.

That's right. That's why Aone...

Aone: I'm sorry!

That's why she apologized back then.

She thought, "it was my fault."

Aone: I'm...an idiot, right? I took too long to notice. Sorry, I'm sorry.

Aomai: N-no! You didn't...

Aone: Let's put an end to this.

Aomai: Eh?

Aone: Hey, Suu-kun. Please, listen to one wish, just this one wish.

Aone: Don't think that Kiyo is a bad kid.

Sasamaru: Aone.

Aone: I'm the wrong one...I did cruel things to Kumigami-san in the past...I wished for it.

Aone: At the Ayanashisai...she did what she must not because I wanted to win. She simply granted my wish.

Aone: The "bad kid" is really...me.

Aone: So, Suu-kun...I have no right to be liked by you.

Aomai: No. You're wrong! You're a "good kid"!

Aomai: Y-you know it, right? Hey, bro. You know sis is a "good kid," right!?

Aone: It's fine. Thanks, Kiyo.

Aomai: It's not fine! You like him, don't you!? Don't you want to be with him!?

Aone: Yes. I like...I love him.

Aomai: Then!

Aone: But, Kiyo. Your sister can't become happy by turning you into a "bad kid."

Aomai: Don't mind me! If you're happy, I...

Aone: That's wrong.

Aomai: Sis!

Aone: No. It's not "wrong." I "don't want" it.

Aone: Your sister is very selfish. I don't want to do what I don't like.

Aomai: Sis.

Aone: Hey, Kiyo. What is your wish?

Aomai: Eh.

Aone: Your sister will grant your wish.

Aomai: ...

Aone: Please. Tell your sister.

Aomai: I...I...

Aone: Yes.

Aomai: My wish...is...

Aone: What is it?

Aomai: My wish is...

Aomai: ...for you to be happy.

Aomai: For my twin sister to be so happy, so happy, that she doesn't know what to do with all that happiness.

Aone: Then, you're the same as me.

Aone: I want you to be happy, too.

Aone: Every day, so happy, so happy that you don't know what to do with all that happiness.

After telling this, reflected in her eyes...
is the color of "pain."

Aomai: You're wrong, sis.

Aomai: Your wish simply wants the younger sister's happiness as the older sister. No, it's not because I'm the younger sister.

Aomai: You're very kind. You simply wish for the happiness of everyone around you.

Then, as if reflecting what is in the older sister's eyes, the color of "pain" also emerges in the younger sister's eyes.

Aone: It's not wrong.

Aomai: It's wrong. I just want my twin sister to be happy.

Aomai: I just want {\i1}my{\i0} twin sister to be happy. I just want the other {\i1}me{\i0}, who is always caring for me because she's the older sister despite having been born at the same time as me, to be happy.

Aomai: In the end, I'm doing this {\i1}for myself.{\i0} I'm not wishing for someone else's happiness like you.

Aomai: Right? I'm different from you, right?

Each other is strongly reflected in each other's eyes.

Saying "wrong" to each other, they even appear to be the same person, like talking to one's reflection in a mirror

Those are eyes like opposite mirrors.

Aone: Then, we're the same.

Aone: Kiyo, you're trying to put a difference between us, with "good kid" and "bad kid."

Aone: This is because we are fraternal twins.

Aomai: Eh.

Aone: We don't have the same shape, like with identical twins. We are similar, but different.

Aone: Even if others know we are sisters, no one can immediately tell we are twins.

Aomai: S-sis.

Aone: Kiyo, so, that's why you're bringing me happiness, right? You're trying to become a real twin by making the other half happy, right?

Aone: Saying that the other half's happiness is your own happiness. That it's for your own sake.

Aone: Like this, you are thinking that we can be real twins. That we can become real twins, right?

Aone: Saying that a difference in shape is no big deal. More than anyone, you want to say that we two are one despite our differences, right?

Aomai: ...

As if what they are enduring had overflowed all at once...
the one who first produces a visible change is Aone.

And, as if following her, Aomai too has the pain of suffering reflected in her eyes.

As if it was her way of life itself.

Aomai: ...W-why...

No.

Aone: That's what I'm saying, Kiyo. Our wishes are not different.

...As if saying that the two sisters are {\i1}one single person{\i0}.

Aone: It's what {\i1}my other half{\i0} is thinking. I know it. Of course I know.

Aomai: S-sis.

Aone: Besides, you often imitate my appearance. You wear a uniform if I wear one, and wear a matching headband.

Aomai: Ah!

Aone: Your feelings unintentionally overflow because you're always holding yourself down, right?

Aomai: ...

But it's no use.

All the more since {\i1}they're thinking about each other.{\i0}

Looking with very gentle eyes at the confused younger sister, the older sister has abnormal sweat on her cheeks.

Aone: You're weird, Kiyo. We're real twins, but why do you long for twins?

Aomai: I-I...

Aone: You don't have to do that. We're one person. We're a fragment of each other, and of no one else in the world.

Aomai: I...!

If they protect each other...

If they treasure each other...

...now, they {\i1}should be able to endure the pain heightened this much.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Sto...

I'm at my limit.

Sasamaru: Stop it, you two! If you continue...!

Blue Sisters: We're not "two."

Their gentle eyes pin me down.

The four eyes are as if they were two eyes.
I'm unable to move.

Sasamaru: B...but!

Aone: Kiyo.

Aomai: Sis.

My words have reached them.

They also understand my feelings and why I'm saying this.

So, this is their answer to my feelings.

"Her" answer to this situation, where the suffering increases the more you sympathize.

"Her" hand overlaps with "her" hand.

Very naturally, like overlapping one's own hands.

Aone: My chest...hurts.

Aomai: That's true.

Her appearance is really like one's reflection in a mirror.

Aone: But I don't want to lose.

Aomai: You're right.

Aone: I'm a sore loser.

Aomai: I don't want to lose to this situation.

Aone: Urgh!

Aomai: Does it hurt?

Aomai: But "I" can...

Aone: Yes, "I" can...

Blue Sisters: I can endure it by myself.

Inside this suffering, "she" looks at me.

Aone: Suu-kun, sorry for involving you.

Aomai: I'm sorry.

I wave my head left and right.

Aone: But, if possible...I want you to see with your own eyes.

Sasamaru: ...

What does...she mean?

Aone: I guess...my body won't last long.

Don't tell me...

Aomai: It's vaguely...but I kinda know what will happen.

Sasamaru: ...

Now, there is something everyone in the school is concerned about.

The question of "where does this illness lead to?"

This illness corrodes the heart.

Let's say there is a land called "person."

On it, there is a forest called "heart."

And there are uncountable trees growing there.
As if completely turning the "trees"—the feelings of sympathy for each other—into nutrients, this illness ripens the fruits of "malice" as the lesion.

Then, what happens after it?

If you resist the temptation of the ripe fruits—malice—the land—body—screams.

And, if everyone fully realized this, then, of course, they are worried about the thereafter.

What happens to the screaming land after the lesion settles down?

Sasamaru: St...stop it!!

Pressured by the worst bad feeling, words spill from my mouth.

Aone: Thanks.

Aone: But, sorry.

Aone: I don't want to lose. I don't want to lose to...this situation, trying to separate Kiyo and I.

Aone: I finally said. I finally said it.

Aone: Now, if I lose to the illness...and withdraw my feelings...

Aone: ...I'll never be able to "have you recognize me."

Sasamaru: Aone.

Aone: Hehe.

Aone: After everything...I'm still "Aone" until the end.

Sasamaru: I know. I really know! I know your name...the names of your two!

Aone: "Aone" is...fine.

Aone: For this is the only thing...you gave me.

Sasamaru: ...Ah...

Aone: ...Kumigami...san...

Aone: I'm sure Kumigami-san...is waiting for you.

Aone: ...Suu-kun...treasure those feelings that you finally realized.

Sasamaru: Ah.

"Her" body...
is disappearing.

Sasamaru: Aah!

Swaying...
almost like a heat haze.

Slowly...
almost like a sublimation.

Gently...
almost like a decay.

Yes.
Like the bravely rampant summer's green leaves changing into the autumn's red leaves.

In this season, the trees' leaves change clothes to red and yellow, creating the red leaves' scenery.

"That is this country's autumn landscape."
This perception is usually overlooked, but, in fact, the ones that change their colors are only the deciduous trees.

The evergreen trees, as the name implies, always preserve their leaves.

Although, an ideal environment for the trees—that is, with enough water throughout the year and a warm and pleasant environment—is very rare.

That's why the trees drop their leaves: to live on.

The leaves fall because the trees start storing inside themselves the nutrients they send to the leaves. As if grieving the fact they were abandoned, the {\i1}cut down{\i0} leaves lose their color.

Leaves being lost to red, the "red leaves."
Leaves being lost to yellow, the "yellow leaves."
Leaves being lost to brown, the "brown leaves."

This is the outcome of each of their cries.

The general term for these tears is "red leaves."

The "red leaves," the tears, are now falling.

Swaying, slowly, gently...

...withering.

"Her" body is disappearing, as if becoming transparent.

The moment she vanishes...

Aone: Eh.

...Aomai lifts Aone's body...

...and, just like the younger sister wished for the older sister's sake, Aone's lips and mine touch each other.

Right before this, she vanishes.

Aomai: Sorry.

Aomai chuckles.

With these last words, the younger sister who is "her," also...

Sasamaru: ...

I sink down to the floor.

Sasamaru: Ah...

Sasamaru: Aah...ah...

Sasamaru: aaahhh...

?: AAAAAAHHHHHHH!!

This scream reverberates in the empty sky.

The dark gray sky is looking down on the land.

He, the dark gray sky, whose other name is dull weather, has bad eyesight.
For him, the existences on the land are just spots on it.

He recognizes them as "trees."
Trees that can't move on land and trees that move around.
He only sees them like this and, maybe because he can't see, also has no interest.

Still, he only knows that every single tree on the land has a "heart."

Now, these trees are about to wither.

The place he casually laid his eyes...
This land, taken as eternal, that he laid his eyes upon by coincidence, is covered by radiant red leaves.

There is a strange hue bashfully dyeing every year when this season arrives.

However, despite vividly dyeing it, all of it is about to wither.

It is rare for him to display such an interest.

He might have realized.

The ones releasing a vivid hue, naturally fascinating all, are the existence called "humans."

And also...

...that the ones withering also are "humans."

He is running.

Wholeheartedly, as the impulses advancing from inside let him.

Just as the feeling called "terror" stirs him up.

?: Haaa...Aaaaaahhhhh!

Before he notices, his stance has become {\i1}that{\i0} of those days.

Those days when he lived only to run.

His deeply dyed custom didn't fade even in a time like this.

This...
situation.

Even in this situation, after being shown {\i1}that{\i0}.

?: Aah, aaahh! Aaaaaaahhhh!

They had hopes for his future.
Everyone praised him, believing in his future.

He met harassment because of this, but...
he drove away such things through his results.

He should simply run.
Run faster, faster, faster.

He held down all underhanded means and foul methods with his fair and square attitude.

Until an accident severed his future.

This happens often.
A youngster with a promising future lost his career as an athlete due to a sudden accident.

It's a common story you hear everywhere.

So, what also made him change completely...

...and what disgracefully ruined it was also a commonplace story.

On those days, he met a man.

An eccentric man.

From his outward appearance, he gives the impression of a diligent honor student. But he was detached, with a somewhat elusive personality.

But his inner side wasn't elusive.

Not elusive. A man with a will...
of steel, melting anything that touches it.

This man didn't fear others' evaluations.
No matter how others saw him, he persisted with what he had to do.

But not against his will.

He calmly accessed what he could and couldn't do, and persisted with what he "should do."
And what he "should do" was not "something he had to do."

What this man "should do" was always "for the sake of everyone," including himself.

For this reason, he was often misunderstood.
But he didn't show a speckle of being bothered by it.

No matter how much he got misunderstood, he happily smiled if he could accomplish the "for the sake of everyone."

"Aah, this man never sought others' understanding."
When he realized this, he started to always be together with this man.

On those days, maybe he was able to be together with him because he was such a man.

That man aspired to become an artist.

Or, more correctly, it was his "family business."
For generations, this man's house produced many artists.

Including temporal arts, spatial arts, and composite arts.

He somehow consented the moment he learned that.
"So, all artists really are oddballs."

However, before he noticed, he too had become one of these "oddballs."

He started "creating something" as an extension of a mere pastime.
Every time he went to the man's house to play, every time he learned the basics, every time it turned into the shape he wanted, little by little, little by little...

Before he noticed, he too started feeling it as "fun."

So fun, so fun, that he couldn't do anything about it.

Just like those days when he simply ran forward.

It was the autumn season.

Yes, the season painted with autumn colors, just like the school trees that the red team ripened at this year's Ayanashisai.

So, he doesn't forget the autumn.
An unforgettable meaning had grown inside him.

However...
it wasn't a "dare."
Close to a whim, it was an act of "there was nothing else better to do."

Yumemidori Academy.

He didn't enroll to show off, nor did he have a plan B in case he failed.

He didn't think in the slightest that he would pass.

Therefore, it was not a "dare." It was an expression of his feelings of distinction toward the world that made him recall the feelings of ecstasy, even if temporarily.

Eventually, after a short time passed, and he obtained the right to enroll at this school...

...he was not happy.
He was surprised.

He realized that to grasp one's dreams was not simple.

The road wouldn't open with such a small effort.

Every day, every day, simply running, running, running.

It was the first time since those days when he spent every day running until he couldn't think of anything else other than running.
The first time that he was able to grasp what was beyond it.

So, along with surprise, he was disappointed.
He couldn't be honestly happy.

He did put effort.
More than anyone, he knew that he didn't put effort equivalent to what he obtained, nor did he have enough time for it.

In the end, he couldn't be honestly happy and had to accept the result.

He couldn't be honestly happy.
In short...

{\i1}...unable to turn it into his pride.{\i0}

A boarding system facility was just right.

Although there was no one to approach like when he was an athlete, those around him still knew about his past.

So, in an environment where no one knows about him, he shows his "present" self to those around him.

And this also was a "common story."

It wasn't a class where ones "similar" to him gathered.

Still, those around him gradually became "so" because he was "so."

With this meaning, maybe they had something similar to him.
Or maybe they were purely washed away by him.

If there was one thing certain is that the white team he was part of was perceived by others as a "not very good class."

It might have been a relationship bound only by "force."

Even so, they spent a long time together and something that could be called "bonds" naturally sprouted.

However, they weren't aware of this.

...Until that time.

It was an atrocious force.

Fascinated by violence and familiar with wielding it, they didn't doubt they were the rulers. That mistaken pride of theirs was smashed by a single "force."

Horribly beaten, they lost their ties supported by "force."

It was an ironic story.
A relationship built by "force" became "equal" for the first time, after being beaten by an even stronger and absolute tyrant's "force" that didn't allow resistance.

It was a difference in quality.
At that moment, he was made to realize that he had no outstanding characteristics.

A union by "force" is created only when there's a "strongest."

However, such relationships, originally, are superseded by a new person the moment the "strongest" one so far is dragged out of the throne.

When it becomes "equal" without this...
is probably because no one among them truly desired "power."

Their relationship changed since then.

It wasn't a dramatic change.
Still, a small change that they clearly felt that it "changed."

They stopped with their reckless acts of violence.

And, on a certain day...

...without closing their open mouths...
tears naturally spilled from their eyes.

Their "relationship" greatly changed.
For the first time, they united after returning to their duties as "ones aspiring to become artists."

By recognizing each other's tastes and abilities, they became "a single class" for the first time.

Approaching as a friend.
Trust and respect in each other.

There was consideration.
There was sympathy.
There was a clear "bond."

So...

Nakarai: Aaaaaaahhhhhh!!

Nakarai Nobuo is now running.

He watched the moment when his "friend" vanished before his eyes.

So, he realized...
the fate of this "illness."

Nakarai: (Damn...damn, damn, damn, damn.)

He realized how dangerous and filled with malice this illness is.

He could only watch his suffering friend.

He is irritated with himself, unable to do anything, and blaming himself for being unable to help.

Harboring the same suffering and, despite understanding it, unable to do anything to help.

The more he thinks this, the more the "illness" encroaches, slowly strangling him.

From the bottom of his heart, he thinks, "what a wicked illness."

He thinks that this is rude toward all the patients in the world suffering from illnesses, but...
this illness is nastier than any illness in the world.

He finds himself with his mouth warped.
His warped mouth produces words.
"Painful? Serves you right."

These are words toward his friends suffering even now.
A violent pain runs through him if he tries to suppress this.

Even if he endures this pain, a second pain comes.

Then, his tongue smeared in poison wriggles.

"Just frigging die already."

Nakarai: Aah! Aaahh!! Aaaaahhh!!

His friend really died.

{\i1}He disappeared.{\i0}

Nakarai: (I must tell...I must tell this to everyone.)

To tell how dangerous this illness is.

To tell that there's not a moment to lose.

A familiar dormitory.
Their house.

He bursts into the entrance and immediately runs through the hallway.

At the white team dormitory, each person sleeps in their own room.

But, since sick ones appeared one after another recently, they are now sleeping in the "bedroom."
It's easier to nurse them like this, just like in a hospital.

Still, it is not a "sickroom," it's a "bedroom."

It's a room he shares with his dear friends.
He put his friends to sleep by joking, "it's just like a school trip."

This is something he suggested.

Because he still {\i1}has more of it{\i0} than his friends.

However...

...this is no longer a "sickroom."

It's too late.

{\i1}There's not a single person here anymore.{\i0}

Nakarai: (Where did...where did they go?)

He runs around searching for his friends.

Thoroughly searching every room in the dormitory, he runs and runs and runs.

And then...

...he starts running again.

But he already knows...

...that his friends are no longer in this world.

Nakarai: Ugh...aah...

His friends were in that room until a while ago.

On the floor of the bedroom, there's a meal on a tray.

It's still warm.
They probably reheated it.
This meal is the one he made for everyone when he was about to leave.

...Before going to get the ingredients together with his other friend who said, "it's still alright."
And this friend is no longer in this world.

Nakarai: Aaah...aaah, aaaahhh!

"Why am I the only one left behind?"

Holding down his creaking body, he suddenly thinks this.

There must be individual differences.
This is normal if it is an "illness."

It's obvious that there will be ones easier and ones harder to be infected by the illness.
If it were a cold afflicting everyone and its progress were the same for everyone, you could say, "are the viruses soldiers who received matching training or something?"

He might be a hard-to-infect one. He might have some resistance to infections.

However, even if there were individual differences...

...the end result doesn't change.

Nakarai: (Will I...die too?)

Nakarai: (Will I turn out like that?)

Nakarai: (No.
No...
I too will...
No.)

Nakarai: (I don't want that!)

Nakarai: (Shit.
Shit, dammit.
The hell is happening?
What the hell is happening!?)

Nakarai: (Something so absurd exists?
Like hell it does!!)

The feeling that wells up the more he gets impatient...
is a lump similar to a shout, rough but sharp, that he had forgotten for a long time.

Nakarai: AAAAAAAAHHHHHH!!

There is a violent urge arising.

Like uprooting a seedling—a seedling raised very, very carefully—that finally started displaying its growth.

Nakarai: (I don't wanna lose.)

But this feeling emerging...

This single contrary emotion emerges, creating a gloomy world in his heart, with countless dark, submerged feelings gathered together.

Nakarai: It's bullshit...bullshit.

He wants to scream.
He wants to scream.

He wants to scream this feeling.

Nakarai: That is really bullshiiiiiiiiiiiit!!

But, like a thread snapping...

Nakarai: Ah.

This feeling is washed away.

Nakarai: (I'll...lose.)

Aah, another one.

The heroic youngster fighting against the illness...gives in.

The temptation is very sweet.

Destruction is directly connected to delight.

After hearing the sound of cutting wind...

...a pleasant...
A truly pleasant crushing sound echoes.

Nakarai: HAHAHAHAHA! AHAHAHAHAHAHA!!

Joy is welling up from the bottom of my entrails.

After this brush, this bat, caresses the air...

...it transforms the school into art with the scattered fragments.

So pleasant, so fun.
So delighting...
that I can't control myself.

To destroy.
To demolish.
To pulverize.

To create is so fun.
To produce is so enjoyable.
To construct is so delightful.

To {\i1}change the shape{\i0} is...
exhilarating.

Nakarai: Yaaahaaaa!!

There's a small country's dictator inside my head.

After this arrogant person declares war on all countries inside my head, he subjugates them all in the blink of an eye.

Commanding a slaughterer army, he crushes all and every country.

Without mercy nor hesitation, massacring men, women, children, and the elderly.

Then, in a short amount of time, he...
becomes a tyrant.

The tyrant passes down his orders.

"Destroy."

All countries—me—cannot defy.

For I am already a soldier of the tyrant.

As told by the king, I just destroy, destroy, destroy, destroy, and destroy.

Now that I surrendered to the tyrant, only violent urges close in.
Only delight fills me.

Nakarai: (No.)

Suddenly...
a white lump betrays the countries.

It is ao fast that the eyes cannot catch up. So small that you cannot see no matter how much you focus your eyes.

However, it is witnessed in every country.

Nakarai: (No!)

This lump is a paper airplane someone once threw.

It is an airplane thrown to the skies, after folding the paper stitched with the emotions someone felt somewhere.

This paper airplane is flying so high that you cannot reach it no matter how much you stretch your hand, but...

Nakarai: (Aah, I remember.)

I remember something every time I catch sight of it.

Nakarai: (There was someone who stopped me.)

I remember that, every time I became like this, there was someone to stop me.

Nakarai: (Kashi?)

No.

I'm grateful for her.
But it's not her.

It's not her.

It isn't her.

Nakarai: (Who...was it?)

What was her name?

Araragi: ...

Ah.

Yes, it's her.

She had always stopped me.

Araragi: What are you...doing?

Can't you see?
The king living inside my head is making me act evil.

Nakarai: Ahn!? Can't you see? I'm creating!!

So, save me.

Araragi: You lost, didn't you?

Nakarai: Huh? Whatcha talking about?

Araragi: You're frustrated...aren't you?

Nakarai: What? The fuck you talking about?

These are filthy words.
So, this is how I approached others.

I'm the worst.

Araragi: ...

But you are different.
You're different, aren't you?

You are an angel who holds out her hand even to trash like us.

Sorry for the clichéd expression.
These words are the only way I can describe you.

But you are an angel.
You are an angel!

You are...
the shape of that paper airplane. You are its personification.

Nakarai: The hell you looking at!? We are already over anyway! I'll do as I want!

So, save me, just like always.

Stop me.

Nakarai: We are all over! I don't give a damn about others!!

Araragi: Don't act spoiled.

Huh?

Araragi: Everyone is fighting. Everyone is earnestly living. No one has composure.

Araragi: You too are like this, right? You are fighting. You didn't lose before the fight, right?

Araragi: So, understand this. You...must not act spoiled.

Nakarai: ...

Araragi: It will return.

Araragi: Your feelings of compassion and kindness toward someone will return to you.

Araragi: Everyone is connected. I know this.

Araragi: So, don't lose.

Nakarai: ...

Araragi: Sorry.

No.
You helped me.
I was able to become free a little bit.

But I know.
She is enduring it, too.
I know I'm not the only one suffering.

I'm so worthless.
Forever and ever worthless!

Nakarai: (I'm now motivated.)

I will rebel...
against the tyrant.

We, the countries, will go to arms and declare independence from the tyrant.

A ladle as the sword and a pot lid as the shield.
This is enough.

The tyrant's troops immediately advance...

...to crush our independence army.

I know it.
Just one person has to survive.

The one who survives wins.
There's no time left.

We don't have to reclaim the country.
We won't have time to restore it anyway.

Just one is fine. Stay myself.

It's alright.

Now I know the happiness of creating.
I know the anguish of creating.

Compared to that, this is nothing.

Besides...

Nakarai: (I cannot be any more lame in front of her.)

At least fall like a man!!

Nakarai: Hah. Shuddup, you ugly.

It's hard.

Because we can only express our feelings if we use words.

It's hard to express these feelings with a mouth that warps on its own.

Nakarai: (But this is irrelevant.)

I always had a warped mouth.

I can't say it's the situation's fault.

My weakness simply wants to lay the blame on the situation.

I myself haven't changed at all.

Araragi: ...

Nakarai: Huh!? The hell you keeping silent for!?

Araragi: Yes. It reached you.

But of course.

This is the best. You understand me.

Nakarai: Ah.

Then, fix your warped mouth.

My hand is raising the bat on its own.

Brandishing high above in order to swing it down on the girl before me.

Nakarai: T...tha...than...

Yes. Good.

Nakarai: Than...ks.

Good.
See, you can do it!

Araragi: Yup.

Good, she is smiling.

This is good.

So, it'll be alright.

Even this hand that now swings down the bat...

Araragi: Nngh!

Don't make that face.

Look, it stopped, didn't it?

Nakarai: Ugh!

I take the bat, which stopped just before touching her head, and strike myself.

It hurts.
But it's nothing compared to the pain I was enduring until a while ago.

In any case, one strike.

A punishment to me, who tried to hit her.

Nakarai: Heh...hah hah hah.

Thanks to this, I have woken up.

A "pain" for a "pain," as they say.

Nakarai: H-hey.

But my tongue isn't moving as I want.

Not moving, or rather...
{\i1}it starts moving by itself.{\i0} I encounter tremendous resistance when I try to speak what I want to say.

And every time, a numbing pain assaults me.

Nakarai: So, it...returns.

But I wanna ask.

I want her...
and no one else to answer.

Nakarai: So, it...returns to...even me.

Ah.

I could say.

I could say it!?

Humans can do anything when they become desperate.

Araragi: But of course! It always returns!

Sweetly smiling.

Yes, she's happily smiling at me.

As if this smile was applauding even me.

It is very dazzling.

Nakarai: ...Good.

At this moment, suddenly...

...like a seizure that lessens, the tyrant's army retreats.

Now's the time.

There's something I left undone.
I have to do this now.

I lower my head.

Deeply, deeply lowering my head like I've never lowered before.

Nakarai: Thank you very much!!

I shout this and start running.

The army's retreat is temporary.

I know this.

I know they will {\i1}come to kill me.{\i0}

The only one remaining is me.

I have no idea what I'm talking about, but it's myself all alone.

I'll die if they kill me.

So, I must do it before this.

There is something I left undone.

I won't die in peace if I don't do this.

Nakarai: Hey.

Jin: ...

His face after he sees me.
It's an expression I have never seen before.
It's inevitable he makes such a face.

Earlier, he smiled at someone like me, but...
this is the situation we are in, ha ha. We can only smile if we have composure to spare.

It's the price for what I have done.

I was unable to become honest.
What a let-down.

I was able to enter this school so smoothly.

I know how selfish this is.

But it's no use.
It's no use.

So, when I met {\i1}him{\i0}...
when I met him here, I became strange.

I said what I wasn't thinking, "you're not the one teaching anymore," and, "stop looking down on everyone."

And not even once did he approach me with such an attitude.

I know this more than anyone, but...

With a joyful face, he simply created things together with me.
But there's no turning back once you have done that.

I am irredeemable.

Even if help comes, I'll just die like this.

Nakarai: (So, I have to apologize.)

I must apologize to him before I die.

I can't let it be like this.
I can't let myself be like this.

In the end, I could only create lame projects.
I couldn't become better, but...

But I was able to create the project because he was there for me.
I was able to think, "to create is so much fun."

That's why I could think, "amazing!" at their project, the red team project!!

We are living beings who can only convey our feelings through words.

But still, conveying with actions is never in vain.

No, it doesn't matter if it's in vain or not.

What is important is the sincerity in it.

If I admit my faults and feel ashamed of my actions so far...

...my only path is to show my sincerity by rubbing my forehead on the ground.

Nakarai: I am very sorry!

I feel regretful from the bottom of my heart.

My heart might scatter at any moment. But now, at this moment, it is right here.

Jin: What...are you doing?

Nakarai: ...

Jin: W-what are you doing!?

I don't have words to express myself.

I don't know how to say this.

Nakarai: I want to...settle things...

Jin: Settle...you say?

Nakarai: What...I have done...

Nakarai: What I...made them do...

Nakarai: And this...hurt you...

Jin: So, you want me to...forgive you?

I wave my head.

The violent pain of this simple action makes me think that my head is going to fall off.

Nakarai: I do not want you to forgive me.

Jin: Then, why!? Why are you doing this!?

Nakarai: I...wanted to...apologize.

Jin: ...

Nakarai: It's...the last time.

Nakarai: Be...fore...I...break down...

Jin: Stop fooling me! That is just...

Jin: That is just...that is just your self-satisfaction!!

Yes. It's exactly that.

Nakarai: ...I am...sorry.

Still, this is the only thing I can do.

I don't know of any other way.

Aah, if only I...
if only I had learned how to approach others more.

Even if others laughed at me, even if I lost face, I should have learned how to get closer to others instead of wasting time with that bullshit.

I'm really beyond help.

I don't know what to do in times like these because I lived my life only to show off.

I don't know what is most important.

Nakarai: You...are...incre...dible.

Jin: Huh?

Nakarai: I...did all...that. You helped...me when I...was most in...pain and...I still did...that.

Nakarai: You sho...uld be hating...me. But you...were worried about...everyone and...behaved like...that.

Jin: ...

Nakarai: I was included...in "everyone."

Jin: But of course. This is the situation we are in.

Nakarai: That is...incredible.

Jin: A...and? So, you finally repented for what you did and came to apologize?

Nakarai: It might...be so.

Jin: Hah. Good. Good!

At this moment, I see.

After I look up, there's a warped smile on his mouth.

Aah.

Nakarai: (It's no good.)

That smile is no good.

I think this, but I have no right to say it out loud, and I close my mouth.

I cannot say anything.

Jin: Hahaha! Hahahahahaha! Good! So, I was correct all along!

No, don't go over {\i1}there.{\i0}

I gulp down the words that gradually rise up to my throat.

And I'm finally able to approach others with these feelings.

"I have no right to say this with the {\i1}credit{\i0} for all I have done."

Nakarai: (Dam...mit.)

But no. I have to say it.

Nakarai: Ngh!

The moment I think this, a violent pain runs through me.

A pain I have never felt before.
Aah, they have come.

The tyrant army has come to strangle me to death.

Nakarai: Ha, haha.

That's why this pain is proving.

It's telling me, exactly because it's a pain I have never felt before.

It's telling that, now, I am really thinking about him.

Nakarai: (That's more like it!)

My body is getting hot.

Even my fingers are hot, as if the ember called heart ignited the kindling called body.

Assaulted by this pain that makes me lose even the sensation on my fingertips, I don't notice that I'm clenching my fist.

I am unable to move.
Prostrated on the ground, I cannot move.

It's not that I'm not moving.
I cannot move.

If I relax even for one moment, I will do a somersault and scream in pain.

If I move my body, wanting to turn to a more comfortable position, I won't be able to endure this pain.

The smallest movement will drag me to a stream of pain.

I can barely endure it if I stay like this.

Nakarai: (Aah, I...I too will disappear.)

I instinctively know this.

I know this, but I can't stop.

And how glad I am for this!

My body is hot.

As if I was exploding from the inside!

Nakarai: {\i1}Reiji{\i0}.

How long has it been since I spoke this name?

Jin: Hmm?

Nakarai: You are correct.

Jin: Aah! Of course! I am always correct!

Nakarai: But...you...taught me the charm...of art.

Nakarai: Please do not forget your kindness of that time.

I am here now because of that.

Without that, I wouldn't be here suffering like this, but...

Nakarai: (Ptff!)

Throw out such feelings along with your spit!

My life is already over anyway.

It was fun while I was here.

I was able to meet the white team here.

I was able to meet her too.

Nakarai: (I really can't thank him enough.)

Thanks, Reiji.

Because I met you...

Because you were kind to me...

...Now, I can {\i1}be considerate of a friend like this!!{\i0}

Nakarai: Heheh.

These are the last words of my life.

Nakarai: I'm really glad to have become friends with you.

Jin: ...{\i1}Nobuo?{\i0}

The stretched hand caresses the air.

The one who was there until an instant ago is no more.

At this moment, he realizes...

...the fate of this illness.

And exactly because he understands, he {\i1}sneers{\i0}.

Jin: Nobuo. Ah, I know. Of course I know.

Jin: I am...incredible.

The one who followed Sasamaru, who stormed out of the dormitory, was Araragi.

On the way, after stopping at the school, Araragi...
encountered Nakarai.

He was still fighting. Fighting without running away.

He seemed to have succumbed to the illness once, but...
he again gained control and started running.

...To do what he had to do.

Araragi: (He's strong.)

She received courage from him.

Recovering her feelings, about to be crushed again, she faces forward.

Yes, faces forward.

Facing forward, the usual Araragi.

Yes, exactly like...
she herself said.

{\i1}It will return.{\i0}

It is not for show, nor something superficial.

The feelings of sympathizing with others from the bottom of one's heart will return to you.

Araragi: Ehehe.

Araragi is smiling.

As if everyone in the school made a ring by joining hands.

She arrives at the water mill.

She surely was thinking this while coming here.

Now, she thinks that he "will not return to the dormitory again."

Then, no matter where he stops by on the way, no matter how much time it takes...
he will come here in the end.

She is confident in this.

For this is a place he obtained through his hard efforts.

It is a place created through the return of his sincerity.

Araragi: (And, for me, a place of repentance.)

That's why Araragi is now standing here.

This isn't the only memorable "place with everyone."
The classroom too is so. There are also many other places.

But Araragi narrowed it down to here.

Her body is already screaming.

When "it was different," she didn't have the composure to go to other places.
So, in her own way, she thought about where the most memorable place for him is and narrowed it down to this place.

She changed into her uniform.

It's not because she didn't have time to choose, or because clothes at this time don't matter.
She purposely changed into her "uniform."

"At the end, as a student from the Yumemidori Academy."

This is her decision. And also the several feelings she is shouldering.

In short, she decided to spend the last hours with him.

For she still has things left undone.

In order to settle everything.

...Sasamaru still hasn't arrived.

Hour by hour, time is passing.

"If I had misjudged..."
She waves her head after thinking this.

Araragi: (I too have always watched over Sasamaru-chan.)

So, she is not mistaken.

Now, she is standing there as a full-fledged girl.

Aah, there he is.

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan.

He arrives.

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Araragi: Yup.

Aah, it returned.

So, it did return.

Supported by someone's feelings like this...

Understanding once more that "it is connected"...

Araragi: (So, I must say it.)

"Now, I must tell these feelings."

Araragi: Hey, Sasamaru-chan. Could you hear me out?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: Umm...

Sasamaru: ...?

Araragi: I...I, you see...

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Mustering her courage...

Araragi: I...I liked you, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Sasamaru: Araragi?

Araragi: No. I still like. I like you very much.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: I really, really love you.

Sasamaru: A...Arara...gi...

Araragi: Yes.

Sasamaru: Is that...err...

Araragi: No. It's the...the "like" that you finally noticed.

Harutsuge: Long ago, those eyes were looking at Araragi-kun, weren't they?

...Like? Araragi...likes me?

Not as a...friend?

Sasamaru: ...

I don't know how to reply at a time like this.
I wonder if I should say, "thanks."

No doubt this is a happy event.

"How great of a girl she is."
I can brag that I know this more than anyone in the whole world.

Hiyo: I...love you...ho...ney...

But I realized...
...where my feelings are.
...the meaning of the feeling of "like."

So, the words I say are...

Sasamaru: Sorry. I...

Araragi: Okay! My first love has now ended!

Sasamaru: Eh?

I feel let down by Araragi's words, overlapping with mine before I can finish.

Araragi: I'm happy that I could clearly say it.

Sasamaru: E...rr?

Araragi: Sorry, I didn't mean to make you uncomfortable. But I still did. Sorry.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: So, you really don't feel refreshed until you clearly say it. I don't want it to remain in the future. It will annoy you.

Araragi: So, even knowing the end result, I still said it.

Araragi has a smile of, "in short, I don't need an answer."

Araragi: No wonder a hidden love doesn't fit me. No wonder I couldn't properly support you two.

Araragi: I can't do anything about feelings of like, but I'm sure I can do my best if I settle the matter.

Araragi: If that continued, you two wouldn't be able to call me a friend. I wanted anything but this.

Sasamaru: W...what are you talking about, Araragi?

Araragi: I was indecisive, so, I ended up hurting you, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: We hadn't seen each other in a long time, but I didn't know my feelings well and behaved strangely with you.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Sasamaru: Welcome back! Araragi!

Araragi: Ah.

Sasamaru: Welcome back.

Araragi: I-I'm back.

Sasamaru: Aah, I was surprised. This school separates the dorms by classes, eh?

Araragi: Y-yeah, that's right. That's surprising.

Sasamaru: I'll be living in this dorm from today on, so...this might sound strange this late, but please treat me well, Araragi.

Araragi: Yeah. I will, Sasamaru-cha...

Araragi: Ah, sorry. Suu-kun. I'm looking forward to studying with you.

Araragi: It's arrogant to say that I hurt you, but I didn't treat you well, Sasamaru-chan. You felt bad, didn't you?

Sasamaru: I didn't...feel that.

Araragi: Yup, I thought you would say that. That's why I can't lie.

Araragi: I can only face you, who has straightforward eyes, with straightforward actions. Now, I finally decided this.

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Araragi: Sorry for everything.

Araragi: Sorry for being indecisive.

Araragi: But thanks for still being friends with me.

Sasamaru: W...well...

Araragi: Yes.

Sasamaru: Since...when? I mean...

The words "did you like me?" aren't quite coming out.

Araragi: Since our childhood.

Sasamaru: Our childhood?

Araragi: So, so long ago that I don't know when it started.

Sasamaru: ...

At this moment, Araragi is shining more than usual.

Not hesitating with her words, she is very bravely...

...and very straightforwardly looking at me.

Sasamaru: I too liked you long ago...so it seems.

Araragi: Eh?

Sasamaru: I heard this from Harutsuge.

Araragi: Okay. If Harutsuge-chan said that, it's for sure.

Sasamaru: Yeah, for sure.

Araragi: But the feelings you have for me are different now, right?

Sasamaru: Yeah, it's different.

Araragi: Yup, I'm glad you plainly said it.

She very bravely, very straightforwardly, and very pleasantly states this.

Araragi: I was always holding back. I knew Hiyo-chan was working hundreds of times harder, so, I started holding back before I noticed.

Araragi: I was accustomed to this state.

Araragi: Tottering at this state of not confessing, not giving up. Tottering with my dear friends and disturbing everyone.

Araragi: But it's not good to get accustomed to this, right?

Araragi: I'm a shorty, as you see, but I too am a girl. I want to be all lovey-dovey with the person I like. I want to flirt so much that I feel embarrassed.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: So...I must give up you, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: But, Araragi. Why are you saying that no...

Araragi: I shouldn't say it now?

She holds back what I'm about to say.

Araragi: I must say because it's now. I must tell exactly because it's now.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Because it returned.

Araragi: I realized everyone is connected.

Araragi: I realized the meaning of pain.

Sasamaru: The meaning of...pain?

Araragi: Yup. This illness'...nngh!

Sasamaru: Araragi!?

Araragi: S...sorry. I'm...okay.

I try to run up to her, but Araragi holds me back with her hand.

Sasamaru: ...

She's enduring?

Since when?

Since long ago.

Sasamaru: (Ah, I get it.)

Araragi is enduring...
since way before this illness started.

Harutsuge: I'm sure you know about pain.

Sasamaru: Eh?

With a serious face, Harutsuge said to me...

Harutsuge: The more a person knows about pain, the kinder the person is to others.

...that.

Sasamaru: I wonder.

I replied that.

Yes, the days with my father can be called "pain," but...

...can I say that I recognized it as "pain"?

I don't know if my feelings were paralyzed or if {\i1}my common sense had broken.{\i0}

But it's certain that the "pain," at least in conventional wisdom, had become "normal" for me in those days.

So, about "the more a person knows about pain, the kinder the person is to others"...

Sasamaru: I hope that's true.

I don't know if I'm able to be kind to others.

Sasamaru: But...even without pain, there are people who are kind to others, aren't they? I think that these people are amazing.

An inborn kind person.

For example...

Harutsuge: I wonder if such a person exists.

Those were unexpected words.

Sasamaru: There are many, aren't there?

Around us.
Harutsuge is one of them.

Harutsuge: That is not kindness.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Those words were unexpected to me.

Harutsuge: Naïveté. I'm not sure if it's this, but the "kindness" that I'm saying is a bit different.

I tilted my head.

Harutsuge: A person raised in an environment where everyone is kind can easily cause misunderstandings. He finds it natural that his selfishness is accepted and thinks everyone will match with him.

Harutsuge: Even if he were able to live without these misunderstandings...the "kindness" of such a person is something soft.

Sasamaru: Soft?

I again tilted my head at her sudden abstract expression.

Harutsuge: Yes. Soft. Toward others and toward oneself.

Sasamaru: You mean...spoiled?

Harutsuge: Yeah. Simply pampering oneself and others. So, it's "soft."

Harutsuge continued: "it will easily burst open when the time comes."

Harutsuge: They can do this because he thinks it's normal to do it to others. They think this is how the world is.

Harutsuge: And if they get thrown into {\i1}a different world{\i0}...I wonder what they will do.

Sasamaru: What do you mean?

Harutsuge: I mean, {\i1}"to be able to continue to be kind."{\i0}

Harutsuge: When thrown into an environment where no one pampers you and you can't pamper yourself, can you keep applying this, that you thought was "kindness" so far, to others just as you have been doing?

Sasamaru: Hmm.

I still didn't get it.

I didn't know what Harutsuge wanted to say, but there was one thing I could clearly say.

It was...

Sasamaru: So, Harutsuge. You know about "pain," right?

...that.

Because Harutsuge is very...

Harutsuge: No. I was raised being spoiled and more spoiled.

Sasamaru: Sure, sure.

Harutsuge: No, it's true. My parents doted on me very much. I'm a noble lady, ignorant of the world.

Sasamaru: Wait, didn't you just want to say "noble lady"?

If Harutsuge is a "noble lady ignorant of the world," then who am I, someone who is always learning from her?

I remember we had this conversation.

I finally understand.

The meaning of this illness.

The meaning of "pain."

Araragi: ...Right. You've noticed it too.

Sasamaru: Araragi...you knew this?

Araragi: I'm not smart like you, so, I think I don't understand it well, but...somehow, in here.

Here.

The place Araragi puts her hand while saying this is her chest.

This representation is really like her.

Araragi: Sorry...for finally saying it. Sorry...for troubling you so much.

Araragi: I rooted only with words, and...I couldn't do anything for you.

Sasamaru: Rooted?

Araragi: Yup. Now, I can finally root from the bottom of my heart.

Araragi: What I mean is, "make my dear friend happy already, dammit!"

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Araragi: Right?

Sasamaru: But I...

Araragi: No "buts," Sasamaru-chan. Stop making excuses.

Sasamaru: Araragi.

Araragi: You can't forgive yourself, Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi: You're strict with yourself. Despite being really soft on us.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: But Sasamaru-cha...

Araragi bends her mouth.

But the next moment, she bites her lips, as if straightening her own mouth.

Araragi: But...Sasamaru-chan...

She's raising the corner of her lips, as if forcefully smiling.

Sasamaru: Arara...

Araragi: ...

But she still holds me back.

With a breath feeble enough to breath with her shoulders, and with plenty of cold sweat on her skin...

...she is chatting with this much determination.

Then, I have to accept her determination.

I must not fail to hear every single word of hers.

Araragi: It's...not that...Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Araragi: Sasamaru-cha...ah, you're simply treasuring the "sense of friendship"...you're not looking...at each one of...us.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Her words, spoken out of her determination, are very unexpected to me.

Araragi: You should have realized this if you were really looking. Harutsuge-chan often said you're thickheaded.

Araragi: But that's not an excuse, is it?

Sasamaru: An excuse?

Araragi: It might sound odd, but it's true. An excuse. It's not an excuse.

Araragi: Because a certain someone you love has been suffering all this time because of this.

Sasamaru: ...

She was suffering.
I've been making Hiyo suffer all this time.

Sasamaru: You're quite...harsh.

Honestly, it's the first time I see her like this.

Araragi: Yup. Because I'm ill, okay?

My first love says this with a smile.

The smile that I loved.

Yes, a "pain."

The fact that "pain occurs every time you are kind to someone."

The "autumn" has returned to the school that lost it.

When you add heart "心" to the Japanese character of autumn "秋", it becomes sorrow "愁".

Sorrow "愁" means illness "病".

Araragi: Today, the day you wasted is the day I wanted to live.

Suddenly, Araragi says this.

Araragi: And...these were the words of someone who passed away from illness.

Araragi: Words conveying the importance of each day. Words of warning, making you feel pressured to live each day to the fullest.

Araragi: But I don't like these words.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Araragi: I don't hate them. Hmm...it's just that "I don't like."

Araragi: If someone were to pass away tomorrow...I think this.

Araragi: "But this person is living now. It's here and now with me."

Araragi: "So, I should say, 'let's meet here again tomorrow.'"

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Maybe this is hypocrisy.

Sasamaru: It's hypocrisy all right.

Araragi: Ahaha. You really don't mince words.

Aah, yes. This is how she is.

That's why I was drawn to her.

Sasamaru: But, Araragi. I think you're a wonderful girl.

Araragi: Wha...Ahaha. What's that about? You shouldn't say that with a straight face.

Sasamaru: It should be said with a straight face.

Araragi: T-that's almost a confession.

It might be so.

To the Araragi that I love.

To my dear friend, different from the "love" toward Hiyo.

Araragi: Then, Sasamaru-chan. May I ask you one thing?

Sasamaru: What is it?

Araragi: Could you say to me, "let's meet here again tomorrow"?

Sasamaru: Eh.

Araragi: As proof that I exist here and now.

Sasamaru: Ara...ragi?

Araragi: You already know, right? Sasamaru-chan. {\i1}Anyone can be the next to disappear.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: Maybe it's because I'm tinier than everyone? I guess I'm at my limit.

Araragi: Or is it my constitution? In the past, I rarely caught colds, and, to make up for this, I'll get all and every symptom once I get one.

Sasamaru: Is that...true?

Why would she lie?

Still, I can't help but ask.

Araragi: Though, I'm lasting more than those who didn't follow the student council manual at that time.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: So, say it, Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi: I properly said it at the end. I was able to convey my feelings.

Araragi: I would be lying if I said I don't have regrets, but I'm satisfied in my own way.

Sasamaru: ...

Araragi: So, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: I...

Sasamaru: I can't...say it.

Sasamaru: How can I...say that?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: I cannot do that!!

Araragi will disappear if I say it.

I will accept that Araragi will disappear.

Araragi: Saying or not, I'm already at my limit, Sasamaru-chan.

Sasamaru: Then...

Then, why did you come here?

You know your own situation...
and even know the true nature of this illness.

Despite this, why are you here?

Sasamaru: ...

Unable to bear the feelings filling my heart, I stare at the ground.

{\i1}She came because she knows this.{\i0}

She came here because she knows everything, because she has things left undone.

Sasamaru: Ara...ragi.

After raising my face, what is reflected in my eyes is...

...the same as always, Araragi's cheerful smile.

Yumeno Araragi {\i1}is smiling as always, while fully aware that kindness reduces her own life.{\i0}

My first love.

Araragi: Please say it, Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi: I want you to say it.

Araragi: Then, I won't be afraid anymore.

She's enduring.

Even now, at this moment, a mere conversation calls forth a pain that makes her twist her body.

Both her and me.

Even so, we are facing each other in our usual voice tones, with our usual smiles.

As if it was nothing.
She wishes, as if seeking the next conversation that will really be the same as always.

Sasamaru: Ah.

Araragi: Yup.

Sasamaru: Let's...meet...

Araragi: Yup.

Sasamaru: Let's meet here again tomorrow...Araragi.

Araragi: Yup!

It really is casual.

Our usual...
conversation.

Araragi: Then go, Sasamaru-chan. Go to Hiyo-chan.

Araragi: I'll always be rooting for you two.

Sasamaru: Yes!

As if it was covered in rust, my body isn't moving.

But I forcefully turn my body to the opposite side.

Without putting oil in, I move my joints, almost hardened from the rust.

I must go.

I have to leave this place.

She taught me that "I have a place to return to," that "it's time to return."

Sasamaru: Araragi!!

I turn around.

Araragi is standing there, the same as before.

Standing there and seeing me off, as if waiting for the promised time of tomorrow.

The girl illuminated by the setting evening sun.

As if melting into the evening sun.

The sun of the "Four Noble Ones."

Everyone feels her as dazzling.

Cheerful, merry, soothed just by being beside her.

But...
the setting sun, as if saying that its role is over...

Araragi: Give your best! Sasamaruuuu!

...it starts hiding its body over the horizon.

Araragi: Hurray! Hurray! Saaasaaamaaaruuu!

The setting sun sends a yell while it disappears.

Araragi: Do your best! Do your best! Saaasaaamaaaruuu!

The sun will keep smiling until we fall asleep, wishing for us to meet again with a smile tomorrow, a day we take for granted.

Araragi: Don't you dare make Hiyo-chan cry!

Despite smiling, she is gently scolding me.

As to not repeat today's mistake tomorrow.

Araragi: Heeeeey!

And the night will come.

Araragi: I love youuuuu! Sasamaruuuuuu!

The sun is disappearing from the sky.

Sasamaru: Aah!

I run.

Sasamaru: Aah...aahh!

And every time, something spills from the corner of my eyes.

Sasamaru: Aaaahhh...

I'm glad.

I'm glad I could meet them.

I'm glad I was able to become their friend.

Sasamaru: aaaaaaa...

Aah, this world is...

Sasamaru: AAAAAAAHHHHHH!!

...this world is very, very kind.

That's why this world has "pain."

The approaching urge bursts this body.

While staring at my trembling hand, I feel delight after realizing its cause is not fear, but excitement.

I...
have "awakened."

This conviction is now inside my palm.

Not with words nor with shape, the truth is simply dancing in this palm.

Now, there is an unprecedented danger running rampant at this school.

I am the only one who can do something about this situation.

I am the existence who will save everyone suffering from all this.

My name is Jin Reiji.

There is the Japanese character for "king" in my name.

"The one who gives orders."
In other words, a "king."

Jin: (Yes, I am a "king" who will save everyone.)

Only I can do this.

Nakarai.

Even that violent man devoid of intelligence recognized this.

That kind's only value is their sense of smell.

They are fast only in the act of "being rescued."

He relied on me.
He knelt before me, even at the moment he disappeared.

Jin: Hahah, hahahahah.

Therefore, I need to advance to the next stage.

Jin: (A king needs a queen.)

A good king can only display his ability when there is a queen.

Becoming a banner at the center of everyone.

Yes, a queen.

And the only one fit to be my queen is "her."

On this day and after a long time, a visitor arrives at the red team dormitory.

With the Ayanashisai, the family started returning home late.

For this reason, no one visited. The dormitory kept being the "house" for the family to return to. But it spent less time being used as a "house" to receive visitors.

That's why the dormitory is happy.

It's a visitor who came to see its lovely family who resides in it.

But this is exactly why the dormitory is very attentively observing the visitor.

While having the great generosity to accept anyone who comes, it sees what kind of visitor he is to the family.

On this day, the dormitory emits a warning sound.

It senses an unusual presence from the visitor.

While lamenting itself, unable to speak any words...
still, the dormitory keeps emitting a warning sound.

Harutsuge: Hmm? An earthquake?

Jin: Kashi-san.

Harutsuge: Oh, it's you. What's up?

What is a bit surprising for the visitor is that the family is lying in wait with the entrance open.

And also, it's the person he came to see.

Jin: What are you doing?

The visitor is calmness itself.

Unable to completely control the excitement he has never felt before, and with it pushing him, he can still be astonishingly calm on the surface.

It is an astonishing self-control.

Endowed with self-control despite succumbing to the illness.

Harutsuge: I'm waiting for his return.

Jin: His return?

Harutsuge: Yeah. My little brother was being mean to my little sister. The two of them left a while ago.

Harutsuge: Big sis here is waiting for her lovely brother, who won't obediently return. There's a sister who went after him, though.

Harutsuge: That is her decision.

Jin: The brother you're waiting for...do you mean Suu Sasamaru?

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Jin: ...

Harutsuge: And what about you? Should you be here at a time like this?

Jin: I came because we're in a time like this.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

After raising her face, Harutsuge looks again at Jin Reiji and...

...reflexively notices the difference in him.

Harutsuge: Did you...change somewhere?

Jin: I wonder.

Harutsuge once more looks at Jin Reiji, who answers with an arrogant attitude.

Harutsuge: No, sorry. It's the situation we're in. It's not surprising we're different from usual.

With an awkward smile, she concludes this.

Jin: Hahah. Correct.

Harutsuge: And? Do you have any business with me?

Jin: Ah, there is something I want to ask you.

Harutsuge: What is it?

Jin: Do you...have a person you like?

Harutsuge: I have.

Harutsuge smoothly answers an abrupt question that should make one hesitate.

Harutsuge: I like my parents. I love them. I'll be grateful to them until I die.

Jin: I am not asking that!

Harutsuge: Why are you angry?

Jin: I-it's nothing...and, what about it?

Harutsuge: I like Hiyo-kun. And Araragi-kun.

Jin: Those two are girls!

Harutsuge: Ah, and also...I like Sasamaru-kun.

Jin: ...!

The moment he hears these words, Jin Reiji opens both his eyes wide.

Jin: So...that's how it is.

Harutsuge: "How it is"?

Jin: You are always together.

Harutsuge: We are friends, after all. Although, always together doesn't mean we are friends, and not together doesn't mean we aren't friends. We are...let me see...we often spend time together.

Jin: So...is it a special relationship?

Harutsuge: It is kinda special. At least, I think of them as more "special" than anyone.

Jin: ...

Harutsuge: But I think this isn't the answer you're looking for. Sasamaru-kun is...

Jin: Suu...so, it's him.

Harutsuge: Are you listening to me?

Jin: I-I am listening! You are covering it up, aren't you? In order to protect Suu Sasamaru!

Harutsuge: Huh?

Harutsuge does feel a discomfort at the excited Jin Reiji, but...

...she strives to calmly answer him.

Because the discomfort itself is the "normal" in the present situation.

Driven by this discomfort, she hurled cruel words at her dear friends.

It is for this reason that she must now control herself.

Harutsuge: It seems you are listening but not paying attention. I'll ask, then. Where in this question is the reason for me to protect Sasamaru-kun?

Jin: I-it's because you know my feelings! So, you're protecting him.

Harutsuge: "My feelings"? What are you talking about?

Jin: You do not need to feign ignorance. I know...I know it.

Harutsuge: I think you're taking hasty conclusions. How has it been concluded if it hasn't even started?

Jin: Suu Sasamaru is an obstacle...for it to start.

Harutsuge: Huh?

Jin: I-I should start from there. I am a superior man. If the person you yearn for disappears, I can become the man who will embrace you.

Harutsuge: Hey. What are you planning?

At this moment, she finally stands up.

Discomfort.
No.

What she is feeling is a "sense of danger."

Jin: Yes. I am superior. If I sever the feelings binding you...you will be with me.

Harutsuge: ...!

Harutsuge sees...
a dark-gray light shining at the hand that Jin Reiji puts inside his pocket.

Jin: W-wait right there! I will...I will soon put an end to this!

Harutsuge: Hey! Wait!!

The pursuing Harutsuge, and the Jin Reiji turning around.

The latter starts running first.

Harutsuge: Oh, no!

Harutsuge immediately follows but loses sight of him.

Harutsuge: (Where...where did he go?)

Her chest beats fast.
A bad premonition is hastening her pulsation.

Harutsuge: Shit!

Harutsuge looks back at the dormitory once...

Harutsuge: (Sorry, Hiyo-kun!)

...makes an estimation and runs again.

What a thing.
For the discomfort that she accepted to backfire like this...

If only she had reacted faster to that discomfort...

Harutsuge: (Sasamaru-kun!)

When she thinks that something might happen to him...

...Harutsuge's face becomes pale in the blink of an eye.

Harutsuge: (It's my fault!)

She was naive.

This situation...
Yes, it's this situation.

In this situation, she has her hands full just to protect those around her.

Vanished from this world without any trace, her figure is scorched in my mind.

In the twilight, as if vanishing together with the setting sun.

Araragi: Then, go, Sasamaru-chan. Go to Hiyo-chan.

Araragi: I'll always be rooting for you two.

She is again pushing my back.

I cannot mistake anymore.

I will throw away any feeling of indebtedness and inferiority and tell her these feelings.

Hiyo: I...love you...ho...ney...

...As to not trample on her feelings.

From the water mill to the red team dormitory.
Our dormitory.

The shortest path is to go through the school grounds.

Harutsuge should be looking after Hiyo.
She might punch me the moment we bump into each other.

I'm now happy for this kindness.

Sasamaru: (Wait right there!)

No.

I rethink. This feeling is arrogance.

Sasamaru: (Please, let me tell you these feelings!)

Supported by my impatient feelings, I increase my running speed more and more.

I can now consent to it.

The teachers witnessed this illness' fate before anyone else.

That's why the elderly teacher's nonsense gained credibility, and the yellow team student screamed like that at the gymnasium.

It was none other than...
Onitake-sensei.

The teacher who was brought in with cold symptoms—with {\i1}symptoms similar{\i0} to a cold—"disappeared" just like the blue sisters and Araragi.

It might not have been in one moment. It might have been gradually.

In any case, the teachers, with a situation of "humans disappearing" before their eyes, had no other choice but to accept the unthinkable situation now occurring at the school.

First, they took precautionary measures as to not panic the students and tried to do something about it.

In the end, all this happened, but...

Oops.

Jin: I found you.

Sasamaru: It's you.

Halfway on the road to the dormitory, I encounter Jin Reiji from the black team.

Sasamaru: Good. You're still all right.

In this bizarre situation where people are vanishing one after another, to see a familiar face is very reassuring.

But there is something I must prioritize now.

Sasamaru: Sorry, I have to g...

Jin: To where?

Sasamaru: What are you doing?

Jin: "What am I doing"? It is everyone who should be doing. For I am the "king."

Sasamaru: The king?

Jin: I am the model. Everyone will live by imitating myself. This is how they will survive.

Sasamaru: ...

A discomfort arises.

However, we learned that it's already meaningless to doubt this.

And the man before me also learned.
So, I must accept it.

I have already made a mistake.

Unable to endure the pain, I let the illness encroach on me and hurt the one most important to me.

So...
I think about what I can do for him now.

Jin: What is with your eyes?

He is a splendid man.

Although not having a sturdy body, he, with his strong will, never lost heart even when quarreling with the white team students. When the illness spread and the school fell into panic, he took the initiative and acted for the sake of everyone.

I know this. It'll be fine.
As long as I don't lose my feelings of respect for him, it will be fine.

Sasamaru: (I cannot mistake anymore.)

Like hell I will mistake.

Sasamaru: Sorry, I'm not with my best look. Sorry if I offended you.

Jin: You are too servile. Really, what did she see in you?

Sasamaru: She?

Jin: Well, it doesn't matter, since you will disappear. Think of this as an undeserved honor. For I personally will deal with you.

Sasamaru: What do you plan to do with that knife?

Jin: How naive of you.

Sasamaru: I really am. I'm thickheaded, you see.

Jin: I will have you disappear. You are on my way.

Sasamaru: ...

Jin: Did you understand?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Jin: Good. Then...

Sasamaru: Don't lose.

Jin: Hmm?

Sasamaru: You too, do not lose. You still can fight, am I right?

Jin: Huh?

Sasamaru: You're still all right. You're a splendid man.

Jin: Yes, of course! I am splendid! So, you do understand!

Sasamaru: Correct. That's why you won't lose.

Jin: ...

Sasamaru: Won't lose.

Shit, the pain is getting fiercer.

But I won't give in.

I will no more give in to this joke of an illness.

Jin: I grow tired of talking to an idiot.

Sasamaru: Sorry there.

Jin: You look pale.

Sasamaru: Yeah...it's humiliating, but I'm out of composure to spare.

Jin: You are not suitable to protect her. The person to protect her must be a man like myself.

Sasamaru: Urgh!

Jin: Are you frustrated that I hit the mark?

Sasamaru: ...

Jin: What's wrong, Suu Sasamaru?

There is a welling-up sensation, as if it was burning from my entrails to my throat.

The more I suppress it...the more I pin it down, the more the pain's pendulum accelerates.

Sasamaru: (It's all right.)

Believe this.
Assumption can also be a weapon.

Oppose it.
This weapon can even compare to a creed.

Yes, a spell to keep telling oneself that "it's all right."

However...
the dark-gray light lodged at that tip...

...lays a strange membrane on my field of vision.

Sasamaru: Uggh!

I must not give in again.

Not to this illness that toys with the human heart.

But...

...how should I deal with {\i1}an illness I contracted before it?{\i0}

Sasamaru: Ughh.

A fake "white."

The pressing pain wants to repaint the world with white.

...No.

This "white" is...

This "white" is something I painted over.

Sasamaru: (Calm down.)

Yes, calm down.

I can deal with a mere swinging knife.

Calm down.
{\i1}Calm down and observe the opponent's movements.{\i0}

{\i1}Maintain distance from the opponent and do not overlook any single movement.{\i0}

{\i1}Like this, the solution will naturally arrive at my hand.{\i0}

Easy.

It is so silent that it makes me shiver.

External sounds are completely cut off. With my skin, I'm feeling only the movements of the target in front of me.

The next action he is going to take is...
Overlapping prediction over prediction and built-up training, I naturally regulate my breath to respond to any of these scenarios.

Easy.

Two times.

This cruelly frozen assessment is handed down like an execution sentence.

Sasamaru: (He's an amateur.)

I'm positively sure he is an amateur who has never held such a weapon.

It is a daredevil charge.
Recklessly waving around and relying on the sharp tip.

But, no matter how much he brandishes with all his strength or depicts a trajectory that can't be called a combo...

...the next moment, my attack will kill the target.

It's easy to win over him.
It's simple to crush him.
My flash is a sledgehammer.

Jin: What? Wanna fight?

He is full of openings.
I conclude it doesn't matter if I counter his attack or if I start the attack.

I don't need to use my opponent's strength.

Swiftly...
pulverize!!

Hiyo: Please be my friend.

Sasamaru: (...!)

For one instant, a scenery crosses my mind.

At this moment, I...
bite my lips.

Now, the familiar bitter taste of iron, conversely, makes me realize "these" are events from long ago.

Sasamaru: (I can't.)

Yes, I can't.

Sasamaru: (I must not.)

Yes, I must not.

Then...
Then, I ask myself.

Who on earth am I?

Sasamaru: (I am...)

Hiyo: Far more like a bamboo...

Sasamaru: I am a Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself. Suu Sasamaru of the "Four Noble Ones."

Jin: Huh?

Sasamaru: Throw away that weapon. My body naturally reacts to that. So, throw it away.

Jin: Hmm? What, you scared?

Sasamaru: Yeah, I'm scared.

That weapon won't hit my body.

The moment he steps forward, my fist will crush his jaw and pulverize the hand holding the weapon.

That weapon won't be useful before {\i1}me, a deadly weapon.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...Throw it away.

Jin: Hah...Hahahahaha, hahahahahaha!

Jin: You're scared! Hahahahaha! So, you're scared!!

Sasamaru: I beg you!

At this moment...

...the pain bursts open.

Jin: This is our situation. That's why I must do this. For I am the king. I must be a perfect king and lead the pitiful people.

Sasamaru: You're wrong.

I clearly state this.

Sasamaru: It's not because of "this situation." I know someone who is living the same as always, "even in this situation."

Sasamaru: I know about a noble girl who is fighting against the pain, holding it back, and living without hurting anyone.

Jin: Kashi-san?

Sasamaru: She is our pride, our elder sister. But it's not her.

Jin: Then...it's the one always with Kashi-san, Yumeno-san?

Sasamaru: She is our pride, the sun. But it's not her.

Jin: Then...then, who is iiiittttt!?

Sasamaru: It's the girl I like.

I'm able to say this so calmly that even I am surprised.

Sasamaru: She taught me. She volunteered to teach me. She taught me by wearing away her heart.

Sasamaru: I cannot mistake anymore!!

I reconfirm my will by asserting this.

Suppressing my fragile heart about to lose to the pain, I take one step toward the answer I want.

Sasamaru: I beg you. Let me go.

Grab...

...the answer, with these hands.

Jin: Go wherever you want after you disappear.

Sasamaru: I cannot do that. I am going to do something that I must be alive to do it.

Grasp it!!

Jin: You alive will only stand in my waaaay.

Sasamaru: ...You won't let me go?

Jin: Aaah, listen to me already! Disappeaaaaaaaaaaaar!

Sasamaru: ...

I realize it's no use.

Now, the illness is completely overpowering him.

I fell into that once.
I should know what to do if I look back upon myself.

Sasamaru: (I must make a pause.)

He is strong.
I believe this.

So, it will be fine if I can grant him a chance to restore his composure.

Meaning that I should temporarily leave.

Jin: Wait! Hahaha! Wait!!

Jin: You're running away!? Are you really running away? Hahaha! Hahahahaha!!

The loud laughter reaching my back is very sad.

I have put some distance.

I have confidence in my explosive power.
He won't catch up with me anymore.

My momentary decision of this situation and the difference in body ability are telling me this.

Sasamaru: (But is it okay like this?)

The risen question criticizes me.

Is it really fine to go away?
No.

Is it really fine to {\i1}leave him?{\i0}

Sasamaru: (What if he follows me to the dorm?)

This idea induces chills.

If this happens, Hiyo will be in danger.

And also Harutsuge, who is with her.

Sasamaru: (I can't.)

I slow my pace and turn around.

I must settle this here.

But in the end, my real feelings...

If I leave him...
If I thrust him away...

...will I be able to forgive myself if I do this?

I think this because I have succumbed once.

Sasamaru: (If I do this, I cannot ever meet Hiyo with pride in my chest.)

To take a pause?

I won't have a chance to settle it like this.

I can only stand here thinking like this because the blue sisters and Araragi pushed my back.

The kindness going around and around is now in my chest.

It's for this reason...

...that I must settle this here.

Now, it's my turn.

However, no matter how long I wait, he's not showing up.

Sasamaru: ...

I gulp.

He noticed I stopped.
Or he guessed I would ambush him here.

He is a smart man.
He's strong-willed and has guts.

Maybe he is lying low and watching me.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo.)

For her sake, I must go to him, even if it is a trap.

And also, for the sake of being able to face her.

Sasamaru: Ugh...nngh.

The pain is gradually increasing.

{\i1}So, the reason for me to be here{\i0} is causing the pain.
As if the buried landmines had exploded all at once.

Sasamaru: Urgh...ngh.

It's difficult even to maintain a calm judgment.

I'll be helpless if he assaults me like this.

He is living without opposing the illness.
The difference between one who opposes and one who doesn't is evident.

If I could take his weapon and calmly talk to him...

Sasamaru: (It's difficult in this state.)

Still, it shouldn't be too hard to bring him down.
No matter how slow my movements got after the illness worsened, he won't easily overcome this great difference in strength.

Sasamaru: (I can't!)

Shit, my thoughts are getting odd again.

I'm unconsciously choosing a path to run away from the pain.
I'm so weak-minded.

Sasamaru: (It's meaningless if I can't reach Hiyo while still being myself.)

Meaning that the difficulty of what I must do has just sprung up.

In order to make him not follow me, I must approach and persuade him.

If only I could capture him...

I shake off this thought closing in again.

What will capturing him accomplish?
Will this save him?

I don't have to simply reach Hiyo.

I, who have lost sight of myself, cannot abandon someone who, similarly, has lost sight of himself.

If I do this, I won't have the right to tell Hiyo my feelings, even if I manage to reach her.

Sasamaru: (I will save him!)

This is also for my own sake.

I don't plan to gloss over it.

For the sake of Araragi, who pushed my back, I must not avoid facing myself!

In order for me to be Suu Sasamaru.

A dead-silent hallway.

This place, which was filled with so much tumult, is now governed by silence.

This supposedly loved school is now almost like a den of thieves.

Sasamaru: ...!

I react to any small sound.

Sasamaru: (...Calm down.)

Collect yourself.
There's no need to fear.
It's meaningless if I lose my self-control after desperately trying to be myself.

Accept all impatience and irritation, and face forward.

Keep being the Suu Sasamaru that she "likes."

Sasamaru: Ugh!

Hold down the pain and be Suu Sasamaru.

Well, let's look for him.

One instant.

I react a little late to the hand stretching from the darkness.

Sasamaru: Oh, no!

It's too fast.

The fact that I suppressed the momentary feelings of counterattack has created an opening.

The opponent attacks this opening with unexpected speed.

Sasamaru: Wait! I want to talk with...

?: Shh!

I remember this sensation holding me down from behind.

This familiar scent drifting from the hair grazing my face makes me recall someone I know very well.

Sasamaru: Haru...tsuge?

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Sasamaru: ...Don't scare me.

Harutsuge: Sorry. But I'm glad you're all right.

Along with a sigh of relief, the nervousness rapidly decreases.

I talk about what has happened so far.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge is speechless.

No, the word "speechless" cannot possibly express her feelings.

Harutsuge: So...Araragi-kun has...

She suddenly stumbles. I support her shoulders.

Sasamaru: Sorry. It's my fault.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun...has...

Sasamaru: I'm sorry!

Harutsuge was the person closest to Araragi.

She was together with her even when we were little.

Harutsuge: Ugh...uuhhh...

Very fast, tears overflow from Harutsuge's eyes.

Even I, who spent the childhood together with her, cannot ever fathom the weight of these tears.

The only thing I can do is to tell her it's my fault.

Harutsuge: Stop it.

After a while, Harutsuge finally lets out words.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun doesn't think...that it's your fault.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: It doesn't matter whose fault it is. Araragi-kun mustered her courage in order to make you go.

Harutsuge: She finally faced the question she was always averting her eyes from.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Say it louder.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: More!

Sasamaru: Yeah!!

Harutsuge: Yes, that's good. You would be setting a bad example for Araragi-kun if you didn't accept her feelings.

Standing up while saying this, Harutsuge even seems like her usual self.

Despite being straightforward as if she was enduring it all, her eyes are fixedly staring at me, just as always.

With her back straightened and with a firm attitude.

The one standing here is really...

Sasamaru: (Our elder sister.)

...none other than Kashi Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Now it's my turn, Sasamaru-kun. Let me tell you what happened.

It appears she came here by chasing Jin Reiji.

Harutsuge: It's my fault he's after you. Without thinking about his state, I replied in a way that stirred him up.

I wave my head left and right at Harutsuge, who is about to say, "I'm sorry."

Sasamaru: More importantly, let's think about a countermeasure.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

I'm happy with her eyes, looking somewhat proudly at me.

Sasamaru: I plan to persuade him. I cannot abandon him.

Harutsuge understands the meaning of these words.

Harutsuge: Can you do it?

Sasamaru: It's not a matter of "can." I have to do it.

Harutsuge: You're right.

But Harutsuge continues.

As if gently enveloping my fist, she...

Harutsuge: You okay?

...asks this.

Sasamaru: Yeah. I'll manage somehow.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: I'll get to Hiyo no matter what. I have something I must tell her.

Sasamaru: So, Harutsuge. Could you return to the dorm and watch over Hiyo?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: While sealing this fist?

While enveloping my fist, Harutsuge stares at me.

Harutsuge: You're trembling. Fear...no, it's not. You're enduring.

Harutsuge: You want to hold him back without violence. And you want him to understand. I can understand this feeling.

Harutsuge: But do you really think this is possible?

Sasamaru: I just said. It's not a matter of "can." I have to do it.

Harutsuge: If you do this, you probably won't be able to arrive at Hiyo-kun.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: I too have come to understand {\i1}what this situation means.{\i0} I can affirm this. If you persuade Jin-kun, you won't be able to return to the dorm.

Sasamaru: But, even so...

Harutsuge: You say you have to do it?

I strongly nod at Harutsuge's question.

Harutsuge: Got it, Sasamaru-kun.

Harutsuge: That is my role, then.

Sasamaru: Wha!

Harutsuge: This was my responsibility. This is the result of my failure.

Sasamaru: That has nothing to do with this, right?

Harutsuge: So, it doesn't have to be you. You don't mind if it's me, do you?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Don't make that scary face, Sasamaru-kun. Think about it. If you're unable to return, what will happen to Hiyo-kun?

Sasamaru: If I return and leave you here, I won't be able to look Hiyo in the eye.

Harutsuge: That's exactly why, Sasamaru-kun. Sorry to say this when you're so worked up, but just relax and return to the dorm. And show Hiyo-kun that pathetic "can't look her in the eye" face.

Harutsuge: And tell her your feelings. The feelings without any falsehood of Suu Sasamaru.

Sasamaru: ...I can't.

Harutsuge: Because I might be able to do something in your place?

Sasamaru: Yes.

Harutsuge: Hey, hey. Yes, I might not be able to win in a fight against you, but don't make light of me.

Sasamaru: I'm not talking about that!

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Then, what are you talking about?

Harutsuge is fixedly looking at me.

And a staggering about of sweat is emerging on her cheeks.

Harutsuge: You're not the only one fighting. Everyone is.

Sasamaru: If everyone is, all the more...

Harutsuge: At least now, listen to your {\i1}elder sister.{\i0}

Harutsuge flatly states this...

...with her usual clear tone, not letting a speckle of pain show up.

Harutsuge: I already said it. I'm like an elder sister. So, let me do something worthy of an elder sister.

Sasamaru: You're too unfair. And in a time like this.

Harutsuge: You silly. I'm unfair exactly because it's a time like this.

Countless sweat drops are falling from Harutsuge's chin.

She's fighting.

She too, at this very moment, is fighting against the illness, through every single second.

Harutsuge: And while I'm being unfair, let me say something.

Harutsuge: Aah, yes. Exactly because {\i1}it's a time like this.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge: You see, I had a little brother. A brother I got separated from in my childhood.

Sasamaru: A little...brother?

Harutsuge: I investigated it...to settle something inside me.

Harutsuge: As I've said before, I was four when my real father put me up for adoption. I remember very well my father's last words, but...I practically don't remember my brother.

Harutsuge: After the Kashi household took me in, I was busy with the new house. A new father, a new mother, a new environment. Honestly, I didn't even recall my brother.

Harutsuge: I myself think I'm a cold sister. But I really didn't remember him, no feelings of guilt or anything. I don't mind if you despise me.

Sasamaru: But...there was nothing you could do. This means your parents approached you as your real parents, right?

Besides, the memories of a young child are unclear.
It becomes more unclear the older you get.

Harutsuge: Exactly. After the "new home" became "my home," I gradually stopped thinking about my past home.

Harutsuge: But there was something I could do. I am grateful for my parents, but that's a different matter.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Before I noticed, I had become "Harutsuge of the Kashi household." I vaguely knew I was "an adopted child," but I had become a person from the Kashi household so much that I wasn't aware of this.

This is the fruits of her parents' love.
Why is she timid about this?

A child doesn't choose the environment.
The only choice is to get used to the place.

If Harutsuge thinks, "I'm glad to be a child of the Kashi household," this is an irreplaceable "good thing," both for her parents and for herself.

Harutsuge: When I had really become a person from the Kashi household...I met a boy with a surname {\i1}I have heard before.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh.

Harutsuge: I'm truly stupid. I thought, "I have heard it before," but I didn't think about connecting it to myself.

Harutsuge: Do you understand? In short, I {\i1}didn't notice it.{\i0} This is how much I {\i1}didn't doubt I was from the Kashi household.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

Was that a bad thing?

Harutsuge was saved.
She was able to forget her painful past.

Nevertheless, she continues with a regretful tone.

Harutsuge: There are many people with the same surname. I could only think this. And vaguely. My sensations of my past home are similar to a dream. Though, there aren't that many surnames like that.

Harutsuge: Without noticing this, I was happily playing together with this boy.

Sasamaru: You were...friends?

Harutsuge: Yes. Great friends.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Harutsuge's assertive attitude creates a question mark in my head.

I don't know when that happened, but if she can assert it like that...
maybe it's at least someone I know.

Harutsuge: This boy never took his friends to his house. This fact supported this. Well, even I would notice if I looked at his house.

Sasamaru: ...

But something doesn't fit.
For some reason, I feel as if a mist was shrouding inside my chest.

Harutsuge: But, although I was a kid, I was still bothered. The more time I spent with him, the more I thought something was odd. The feelings of "could it be?" were rapidly getting stronger.

Harutsuge: Then, one day, I made up my mind and investigated. The cue for this was when the boy distanced himself from us.

Harutsuge: Then, I found out...about why I was adopted into the Kashi household in the first place.

Harutsuge: Well, the Kashi household was like a branch family of this boy's household. I said "like" but it wasn't branched by blood relation, but by faction.

Harutsuge: This boy's home was the head of an ancient Japanese martial arts. The Kashi household branched out from it. "Kashi," which can also be read as "legs."

Harutsuge: It was one of the four households—head, torso, arms, and legs—derived from this boy's home, the "main" one.

Sasamaru: Wa...wait! Wait a minute, Harutsuge!

Harutsuge: Let me finish, Sasamaru-kun.

Looking at me, Harutsuge's expression is very gentle.
Her voice is very calm.

Harutsuge: {\i1}That's why{\i0} I was adopted by the Kashi household. It was branched into four families, but that was a long time ago. Each respective school died out with the passage of time, and now it's only an occasional exchange between families.

Harutsuge: In fact, the Kashi household closed its dojo long ago. Now, its martial arts are secretly conveyed within the family itself.

Harutsuge: However, the head of this boy's home, the "main" and also "originator." In short, the man who was my real father still hadn't given up.

Harutsuge: As a "result," I, the girl, was thrown away and the Kashi household parents, who were unable to just watch, adopted me.

Harutsuge: Yes, because it has a long history, the high popularity still exists in my real father's "name." Although, at about the same time I was abandoned, he ruined himself.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: This is all, Sasamaru-kun. Thank you for listening to Harutsuge's Once-In-A-Lifetime stupid story.

Sasamaru: Then...

Harutsuge.

You are...
You are...

Harutsuge: Oops.

As if shutting my mouth, Harutsuge holds me back.

Harutsuge: And I, who was perplexed {\i1}with this{\i0} and kept my distance when we re-encountered, have no such right.

Sasamaru: ...

The reason you...kept distance with me, who came late to this school...

Harutsuge: I was hesitating. And I should have prepared myself the moment I realized {\i1}that.{\i0}

Harutsuge: I hesitated when we re-encountered. I didn't know how to conduct myself, nor what face I should do, nor what I should talk about.

Harutsuge: I hesitated when he, unknowingly, sought our unchanged past relationship. And I turned him down.

Harutsuge: I understand. So, you were the one maintaining our relationship.

Harutsuge: Suu-kun. We had forgotten about you.

Harutsuge: So, let's move on from this "best friends forever."

Harutsuge: {\i1}We are not children.{\i0}

Harutsuge: But this boy taught me. There was no need to "conduct myself." I should have kept our unchanged relationship.

Harutsuge: Because, before we are "siblings," we are "friends."

Happy from the bottom of her heart, Harutsuge proudly says this.

...As if boasting about me.

Harutsuge: Well, now, my story is over, Sasamaru-kun. Abuse me as much as you want.

Harutsuge: No matter the spot, I have no room for objection. What you think is probably the truth. Rebuke me with the correct words.

Sasamaru: ...You're unfair, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Yes, of course I am.

Sasamaru: Agreeing by yourself...you're unfair. Really unfair.

Harutsuge: Eh?

Sasamaru: I too didn't remember it. When you were four and put up for adoption, I was three years old. But I didn't remember I had an older sister.

Harutsuge: There was nothing you could do. It's a memory from when we were very little.

Sasamaru: I could do something!!

I find myself screaming.

Sasamaru: Is there something happier than this!? I...the dear elder sister I was always admiring is actually my real sister!

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: You hesitated after finding the truth? But of course! Anyone would hesitate after finding out an acquaintance is a real relative! Even I am hesitating!

Sasamaru: But I'm far happier. I'm really happy to know that you, Harutsuge, are my real sister!!

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: You were always caring for me! You were always caring for us!

Sasamaru: Despite acting clumsy and vulgar...you were always worried about us! Always watching over us!

Sasamaru: And this person is my elder sister? My real sister? I now wanna boast about this to everyone!

Harutsuge: B...boast?

Sasamaru: Yeah! "Harutsuge is my sister! We are siblings with a blood relationship!"

Harutsuge: B...but I...

Sasamaru: Shut up! No matter how many times you think I'm a pathetic brother...I'll boast to everyone that you are my sister! Prepare yourself!!

Harutsuge: ...!

Harutsuge: Y...you idiot. I...but I...

Sasamaru: You blame yourself, and why aren't you blaming me? I too didn't remember you. I didn't remember. So, I'm equally guilty, right?

Harutsuge: No...it's not the same...you just found out about it now...

Sasamaru: Is it a crime to hide it? To begin with, you weren't hiding it. You simply couldn't say it.

Harutsuge: That's...because I'm weak...

Sasamaru: And who's the one who trained me, who is much, much, much weaker? Then, how many thousands of times should I apologize to you?

Harutsuge: You...became strong because...you worked hard...

Sasamaru: And who granted me the chance to work hard?

Harutsuge: It's...Hiyo-kun...and Araragi-kun...

Sasamaru: Wrong. It's everyone from the "Four Noble Ones." And the elder sister of the "Four Noble Ones"...Harutsuge, it's you. No one, absolutely, will deny this. I won't let them.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Okay? Absolutely. You know that I rarely use the word absolutely.

Sasamaru: So, be proud, Harutsuge. Don't apologize to me. You are our elder sister, and my sister.

Sasamaru: Or perhaps, you don't want a pathetic brother like me? Do you want to sever our bonds of siblings?

Harutsuge: Y...you idiot. I...don't...

Sasamaru: It's decided, then, {\i1}sister.{\i0}

I say it.

It's the first time I beat Harutsuge at her own game.

And then, Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: yahimprtnt.

Sasamaru: ...What?

Harutsuge: You impertinent. Making your sister cry, you impertinent.

Sasamaru: Sorry for being an impertinent brother.

Harutsuge: But...uh, I'm happy.

Sasamaru: Okay.

Sasamaru: So, this is our first fight between siblings.

Harutsuge: Uhh...yeah, I lost. A complete defeat.

Sasamaru: ...Have you calmed down?

Harutsuge: Wahh, waaah...it was my first time, but my brother made me cry.

Sasamaru: That phrasing might invite misunderstandings.

Harutsuge: My first time, and my brother took...my time to shine.

Sasamaru: You don't have to rephrase it. Or rather, others will clearly misunderstand if they don't hear that lower-voice second half.

After Harutsuge finally says words fitting for herself, we look at each other and laugh.

Sasamaru: Haha.

Harutsuge: Hehe.

While we are here chatting, the "pain" is running through our bodies the whole time, but...

...we laugh.

I'm sure Harutsuge is feeling the same.

Because not even once have we asked each other, "are you okay?"

We know everyone is the same.

Harutsuge: Well, Sasamaru-kun.

At this moment, the expression of Harutsuge, who cried her eyes out, is tinged with a serious tone.

Harutsuge: A while ago, you told me to watch over Hiyo-kun.

Harutsuge: But this is your role.

Harutsuge: It was Hiyo-kun who was watching over you until now. And now, it's your turn.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge?

I finally realize the meaning of Harutsuge's expression.

We are in the same boat.
But Harutsuge notices it first.

She notices the person coming from deep within the hallway.

Typical of Harutsuge, who is always observing what we aren't.

Harutsuge: Blood relationship is such a boring topic, Sasamaru-kun. This is irrelevant. My parents are those from the Kashi household.

Harutsuge: So...it doesn't change that you're my little brother. Nothing has changed.

Harutsuge: I will remain here to protect my dear brother. That's all there is to it.

Sasamaru: Haru...tsu...

Harutsuge: Go and protect my dear little sister, Sasamaru-kun. You're a man, aren't you?

Sasamaru: W-wait a minute, Harutsuge. This topic is not...

Harutsuge: Thanks...for calling me your "dear sister."

Harutsuge: In times like these, the "dear sister" should give her best.

It is the first time in my life...

...that a family member caresses my head.

Sasamaru: Si...

Harutsuge: Go, my brother. And don't steal your sister's spotlight anymore.

Sasamaru: Sis...ter...

Harutsuge: I feel my power rise every time you call me that.

Harutsuge: I won't lose. I won't lose to the likes of an illness.

Harutsuge: The sister you hold so "dear" is, unfortunately, unladylike. But in exchange, she's very, very manly.

Harutsuge: I won't lose to a half-baked moron who gave in to the illness.

Sasamaru: Sister.

Harutsuge: Let's continue the next time we see each other.

Saying this, Harutsuge takes off the hand from my head.

She places her reluctant hand on her chest.

As if telling, "leave it to me."

Harutsuge: Your sister won't mistake our {\i1}next re-encounter{\i0}. I'll go meet you with my head high.

Harutsuge: Well, go now.

Sasamaru: ...

I nod.

My only choice is to nod.

I start running.
Again, I start running.

But I turn back once.

Then, I scream as much as my voice lets me.

Sasamaru: Sisteeeeeeeeeeeer!!

Then, my dear sister...

...smiles with a very reliable face.

Harutsuge: So, you came.

Jin: Kashi-san.

Harutsuge: So, you came...{\i1}straightforwardly.{\i0}

Jin: Straightforwardly?

Harutsuge: I mean that you're the same as Sasamaru-kun. You both are straightforward despite being smart.

It is clear.

It is clear to everyone's eyes.

As for the weakness of Harutsuge...
there's not a shard of the might she showed before Sasamaru left.

Harutsuge: I know it. You never do an underhanded tactic like a surprise attack. Until now, you weren't watching the situation from the shadows.

Her voice is the same as always.
But this is a bluff.
Her expression is eloquently telling of her present state.

She was enduring.
Just like until today, when she always, always kept being "everyone's sister," she was enduring it in front of her brother.

Now, without her "brother" or "sister," her heart relaxes.

And the illness is a very heavy burden to support with a relaxed heart.

Harutsuge: You were slowly and straightforwardly walking toward your objective.

As if she had radically aged.

Jin: Heh.

Jin Reiji raises the corner of his mouth.

They are opposites.

Kashi Harutsuge and Jin Reiji.
A contrast that will never become symmetric.

Jin: Very good, Kashi-san. You understand me well.

Jin: No. No one but you can understand me.

Before he who calls himself "king," the present Harutsuge's only choice is to fall to her knees.

Now, she has...

...she has just completed what she had to do.

So, it is clear.
It is clear to everyone's eyes.

It is clear that she has reached her limit.

Her voice is still tense. Her face still appears healthy.

But this is the last resistance.
She is actually expressing that such is the resistance she can do.

There's an abysmal difference from Jin Reiji, who is going along with the illness.

Harutsuge: That's quite the misunderstanding.

However...

Harutsuge: You and Sasamaru-kun are similar. But...

...she says this.

Harutsuge: You walk straightforwardly. But Sasamaru-kun {\i1}runs{\i0} straightforwardly. This difference is huge.

...she loudly says this.

Jin: And what do you mean?

Harutsuge: It's exactly as I said, ladykiller. You are walking and he is running. {\i1}You cannot catch up to him{\i0} like this.

Jin: ...

Harutsuge: You shouldn't underestimate the Four Noble Ones' leader.

She loudly declares this!

Harutsuge: He started considerably later than everyone. But he has been running. The whole time.

Her voice is boastful.
Her voice is brimming with love.

Harutsuge: He overcame me a long time ago. He has been running for a long, long time.

Harutsuge: Despite this, he didn't realize he has overcome. And every time, he is under the impression we are ahead and starts looking for us. Facing forward and not backwards.

Harutsuge: How long is the distance that he ran?

Harutsuge: You have no right to laugh about this.

So, Harutsuge readies herself.
She slowly readies herself.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun tried to save you. But I cannot do this. I don't have time for it.

Harutsuge: I will crush you here. He would choose the method of gritting his teeth and endure.

In these words, her determination.

Harutsuge: I have my hands full with protecting those dear to me.

This single feeling.

The only feeling remaining in her, who finished what she had to do.

Jin: You do not look well. You said you will crush...whom?

Harutsuge: Sorry, ladykiller. I'm full of mistakes. Though I'm taking the same road as Sasamaru-kun, I cannot protect like he does, no matter how much I run.

Harutsuge: So, I'll be a bit "unfair."

Her leg smoothly...
extends.

Her toes, swaying as if floating in the air, stop while facing Jin Reiji.

Harutsuge: I will tell you why the Kashi household is called so.

Harutsuge: The Kashi household is a family whose responsibility is to respect and guard those from the Suu household.

Harutsuge: By brandishing these Kashi, these legs.

Jin: ...

Jin: It is no use, Kashi-san. You cannot do it.

Jin: Normally, I am no match for you. But now is different. In this situation, I am the "king."

Jin: I am the existence who will {\i1}save{\i0} you. You, the {\i1}one to be saved{\i0}, cannot ever defeat me.

What Jin Reiji is saying is correct.

It is an excessively irrational argument, but, in the present situation, it is excessively correct.

The tyrant is able to act arrogantly, and freely and easily move in this kingdom. Against him, the present Harutsuge is like a crippled person, extremely powerless.

Yes, she is under the protection of the very suspicious existence that is the "student council manual."

However, the conclusion has already been given. It simply {\i1}delays{\i0} the progress.
Actually, her friend might not be able to hold her hand ever again.

Also, the illness is different for everyone.

She wishes for her brother to still be running, but...she cannot do this anymore.

The one standing here is a girl simply waiting for the end to arrive.

Harutsuge: Shut up, four-eyes.

Jin: Four...

But she has said it.
"She has finished what she had to do."

Harutsuge: I said it. {\i1}I don't have time{\i0}. I am aware of this.

She sent out her "brother."
And for this, she remained here as the "sister."

Then, what is there to fear?

Harutsuge: The sharpness has decreased? Can't bear the pain? This is irrelevant.

Harutsuge: I will floor you with a single strike.

Jin: I guess...you are serious.

Harutsuge: Yeah. It's simple. Really simple. I hate minor things.

Harutsuge: I have no time to unleash a second attack. So, you win if you evade it.

Harutsuge: However, if I hit, I win. Simple, isn't it?

Jin: Y-you're staggering! Even if you hit me in that state, you will...

He laughed?
Did he just laugh at her?

Harutsuge: No problem.

Harutsuge: {\i1}I'll blow you away just by grazing.{\i0}

He knows who she is.
Her name is Kashi Harutsuge.
An inborn "ruler."

You impostor king.
Fake king.
One who puts airs of a usurper.

Foolish one who became a king by {\i1}succumbing{\i0} to the illness.

Here, a real king is passing.

Open the way right now!!

Someone said the sharpness has decreased.

At this moment...

...not even the sound of cutting air is heard.

Jin: Eek!

Just as she declared.

Like a storm, the strike that grazes Jin Reiji {\i1}carries away his body{\i0}.

Harutsuge: How was it?

That's why she says...
to the fake king, to the king of this place only.

While displaying the personality of a true ruler.

Harutsuge: I'm quite manly, don't you think?

Raising a loud victory song with the words that she told her brother.

Jin: ...Eh?

Harutsuge: Back to your senses, honor student?

Jin: Eh.

Harutsuge: {\i1}Back to your senses?{\i0}

Jin: Ah...aah!

Jin Reiji now finally notices what is in his hand. Surprised and panicked by his own actions, he releases the knife.

Harutsuge: What a filthy sound.

Harutsuge picks up the knife.

Harutsuge: I'll hold on to this.

Jin: Ah.

Harutsuge: All right?

Jin: ...

Even if controlled by the illness, the memories of what he did won't disappear.

Jin Reiji, finally, as if accepting what he has done...

Jin: ...I am sorry.

Harutsuge: ...

Jin: I...lost to the illness, didn't I?

Harutsuge: You were fighting too. I know. I know this. Everyone in the school is.

Harutsuge: Your strong feelings of "wanting to protect the school" are so strong that the illness slipped in.

Jin: ...

Jin: I do not have good reflexes like you.

Harutsuge: ...

Jin: So, I tried to discipline myself just as much. I tried to compensate with something different. Although, I will never win if I resort to violence.

Jin: Even so, I thought that strength was "I should not lose with my feelings" or "I should persist with it to the end."

Jin: I don't know how my actions were reflected in your eyes. But that was the path I chose.

Harutsuge: ...

Jin: Despite this...I lost. I didn't become strong.

Harutsuge: You were strong.

Jin: It is fine. You don't have to...

Harutsuge: No, you were strong. You always tried to protect the school. Even when everyone lost their support, you were the first who tried to create rules for the sake of everyone. In that situation, you acted for the sake of everyone. You are a strong person.

Harutsuge: I respect you.

Jin: ...

Harutsuge: You simply lost heart a little. A small stumble.

Harutsuge: If you fall, just stand back up. Stand back up no matter how many times it takes. You can do this. You're a strong person.

Jin: ...Thank you.

Jin Reiji slowly stands up.

And then...
he slaps his own cheeks with his own hands, {\i1}to discipline himself, just like always.{\i0}

Jin: However, I have erred. The illness is not an excuse. I made an irreversible mistake.

Jin: Thank you for stopping me. And also...

Jin: ...the feelings I told you are real.

Harutsuge: Eh?

Jin: That I like you.

Harutsuge: ...Eh...eh?

Jin: I will err anything but this.

Harutsuge: Ah...okay, thank...you.

Jin: I will work harder. First, I will accomplish, with all my might, what I must do under this situation.

Jin: And I have betrayed the feelings of Nobuo...of my dear friend who taught me this.

Jin: But now...but now! I will become strong as to not lose to this illness.

Jin: And someday...someday...if I am able to become a man enough for you...

Jin: When that time comes, may I confess one more time?

Looking straight at his dear partner...

...the man called Jin Reiji tells this.

Harutsuge: ...uh...ah...umm...

Harutsuge: Umm...yes. D-do your best.

Jin: Sure!

After letting out a pleasant reply, Jin Reiji leaves the place.

Harutsuge: Ah.

Jin Reiji tells this to Harutsuge while accepting what is happening to his body. And when Harutsuge realizes the meaning of his words...

...the same phenomenon occurs on her body.

Harutsuge: Yes, I'm glad. I was on time.

Thinking it's inelegant to say too much, Harutsuge closes her eyes.

"I'm glad."
She was able to accomplish her role.

Then, hold your head high and depart.

Harutsuge: I'm satisfied. I had a fulfilled life.

Harutsuge: Father, mother, thank you very much.

Harutsuge: I leave nothing behind, and have nothing to regret.

Harutsuge: Because my dear brother went to meet my dear sister.

After muttering this, Harutsuge throws out her chest.

Harutsuge: All right. Well, Araragi-kun, I'm now heading over there.

Harutsuge: Give some nice jabs at my pointless jokes again.

And then...

...the "plum blossom" of the "Four Noble Ones," Kashi Harutsuge...

...vanishes from this world.

I had friends.
Friends I would be willing, without a shadow of doubt, to give my life for.

Yumeno Araragi.
Our sun.

Kashi Harutsuge.
Our elder sister.

...They are no more.

Sasamaru: Uh...uuhh...

They are gone.

Inside the school that we yearned for, taken by the nasty illness that toys with us.

These feelings are closing in like a heavy rain violently striking from the openings in a cloudy sky.

I have a strong resistance to sum up these feelings with the single word "sadness."

I don't mind if I'm despised as a kid or criticized as immature. These feelings of losing them cannot be conveyed with words.

However...
No, it's exactly why I must hold my head high.

I have to be proud of them.

They fought.
If this were an "illness," they passed away at the end of the fight against it.

Not running away nor averting their eyes, they boldly faced the illness corroding them and died.

I must not dishonor their noble spirits.

...As someone who knows this.
...As their comrade.
...As their friend.

...As a person among the "Four Noble Ones."

For the sake of them, indeed "noble ones."

No matter how pathetic my face becomes from crying my eyes out, I have to hold my head high and move forward.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo.)

Now, let me go to you.

Yes.
She too is one of the noble ones boldly facing the illness encroaching on her.

If it weren't for those letters, we wouldn't be here.

I didn't doubt our relationship.

"It will continue forever and ever."
"Our past relationship will be naturally waiting when we re-encounter." I had no doubts about this.

Araragi: I was indecisive, so, I ended up hurting you, Sasamaru-chan.

Araragi: We hadn't seen each other in a long time, but I didn't know my feelings well and behaved strangely with you.

Harutsuge: I was hesitating. And I should have prepared myself the moment I realized {\i1}that.{\i0}

Harutsuge: I hesitated when we re-encountered. I didn't know how to conduct myself, nor what face I should do, nor what I should talk about.

I know there were many reasons there.

I found out they kept blaming themselves this whole time, without putting up an excuse of "there was no other way."

Despite this, how can I blame them?
They, who taught me so much.

I don't plan to criticize them.
Also, I don't feel anger or grief.

The feeling I harbor is gratitude.

Gratitude for Hiyo, who fastened our relationship.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun, for example...when you sat on your seat now, didn't you feel something unnatural?

Now, the answer to that question again permeates my chest.
Together with a new meaning.

Sasamaru: (She fastened me to everyone.)

In order to make everyone always feel conscious of me, who wasn't there.
The same as those letters.

And to her, I...

Sasamaru: Isn't all this your damn fault!? Huh!?

What did I say!?

Sasamaru: Uh...aah...nngh...!

I put up with the urge of wanting to scream.

We chose the "student council manual" and the illness advanced slower than everyone else.

But why only Hiyo collapsed?

Both Araragi and Harutsuge are my dear friends who never forget to be considerate of others.

It's pointless to compare kindness, but one is never inferior to another.

Sasamaru: (...Because she was the first one to overdo it.)

Araragi: Yup, yup. Aah, but everyone might come again to spread the illness.

Sasamaru: (But Hiyo seems relatively fine.)

Sasamaru: (Perhaps she has a medicine...and is having fun looking at us, who are out of our minds?)

Harutsuge: You make me sick.

She was overdoing it before everyone else.

And since then, she was always, always overdoing.

This illness slips in at the moment we relax.
But Hiyo has not even once allowed its trespass.

Hiding her feelings and pinning them down, she kept enduring.

...But what for?

Sasamaru: Ugh...uuugghh...!

The urge to roar wells up again.

Hiyo: ...this is all my fault.

She prohibited herself with "it's my fault."

She endured, thinking, "this situation is my fault, so, I am not allowed to succumb to the illness."

And like this, she...

//text on screen
{\i1}Was lying to herself.{\i0}

Hiyo kept deceiving herself.
Deceiving herself until the lie becomes the truth.

How did Hiyo notice "that"?
I still don't know.

But now, I don't care about this.
This isn't what I should be thinking about now.

Aah.
Dammit, my legs are trembling.

I'm trying to run straight, but I'm frigging staggering like a drunkard.

The "pain" is in a state of "naturally hurting," giving warnings that I find tiresome to pay attention to.

Sasamaru: (But everyone is the same.)

She, lying in the dormitory, is the same.

I finally realize.
I finally realize the meaning of this pain.
I realize, thanks to everyone.

Now, this pain is very adorable.

This pain is proof that I obtained what I sought.

......Aah.

I finally arrive.

Sasamaru: (At the "Four Noble Ones'" house, our house.)

Sasamaru: Uhh.

I suddenly lose my consciousness.

When I wake up, I see not the dormitory I was watching, but a familiar ceiling.

The surroundings are enveloped by the night's silence, one layer deeper than before.

Jumping to my feet, I push aside the futon and stand up.

A dizziness suddenly assaults me.

Sasamaru: (...Just a dizziness.)

I'm not sure if I should express this as a "dizziness," but I have no other way to call it.

Sasamaru: (It is a dizziness.)

I thrust my canines until blood spreads to my lips.

Even if {\i1}I, along with my consciousness, am thrown into the depths of an abyss I cannot ever crawl up from, a dizziness is a dizziness.{\i0}

Don't lose consciousness.
This is the only thing you must do.

The degree doesn't matter.

Hitting my cheeks no longer has any effect.
I can only rely on the familiar bitter taste of iron spreading inside my mouth.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

I try to leave the room.
Holding down my knees, about to give out, I control my trembling legs and head to the sliding screen.

Sasamaru: (Why isn't Hiyo sleeping here?)

Hiyo is supposed to be resting in this room.

Despite this, I'm the only one resting here.

Don't lose consciousness.
Think.
This is no time to lose heart to a dizziness.

You might not wake up again if you sleep.

Sasamaru: (Hmm?)

{\i1}I'm the only one resting?{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Did someone put me here!?)

At this moment, the sliding screen opens.

Hiyo: Honey! You are awake!

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: I'm so relieved.

She is the only one in this dormitory.
So, the answer is obvious.

Sasamaru: Hiyo...did you...

Hiyo: Ah...I was waiting for you at the entrance, and I heard a sound from the gate.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Hiyo: When I ran over there, you were collapsed. I was so surprised. How are you feeling?

Sasamaru: Wa-wait a minute. Waiting at the entrance? Hiyo, did you just say this?

Hiyo: Eh? Yes.

Sasamaru: ...But why?

Hiyo: "Why?" This is your home, honey.

I said those horrible things...

...and I still would come back?
Did she believe this?

Sasamaru: Didn't you think that...I wouldn't come back here?

Hiyo: One might never turn back, but one always returns home.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Hiyo: Like a man of the sea who has a woman waiting for him at the pier, your will cannot be bound by anyone, regardless of where you stay, but...

Hiyo: ...the only place you will return to is this house, where the "Four Noble Ones" gather.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Right, honey?

Saying this...
she is smiling as always.

As always, as though she knew everything about me.

And behaving as if she wasn't bothered at all.

Sasamaru: ...

Just as always.

Although, unable to completely hide her somewhat pale expression.

Sasamaru: It's fine, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: You don't have to smile like that anymore.

Hiyo: Err...what do you mean?

Sasamaru: You're...overdoing it, aren't you?

I notice...
that her shoulders are trembling, almost like a convulsion.

Sasamaru: Don't worry about me. I beg you, take a rest.

Hiyo: Sorry for worrying you. But I am fine, really.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Ah, honey. Are you hungry? I will prepare...

Sasamaru: I beg you.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Please rest.

I can tell from Hiyo's expression that the air gets heavier for one moment.

I'm such an idiot.

Hiyo is being considerate of me, and I again...

Hiyo: T-then, honey. Please rest too.

Sasamaru: Don't mind me.

Hiyo: But...

That's right.
I collapsed a moment ago. I won't persuade her by saying, "I'm all right."

But there are two reasons to refuse.

One is the one she is worried about, with the meaning of "I must not rest."

And the other one...

I am aware of my situation.

I know there's a high chance I will never again wake up if I sleep now.

I overdid too much on the way here.
But this is my own fault.
This isn't anyone else's responsibility.

If I may guess my limits after considering this...
it's probably today or tomorrow.

This is the time I have left.

I came here because I have something I must do.
I came here to accomplish this.

I cannot end before this.

Hiyo: ...

There lies Hiyo's expression, as if she guessed my feelings.

But what about her?

How much time does she have left?

Even with this impatience running about inside my head, my worry for her is different.

I want her to rest.

This is the only way humans can be considerate of a sick person.

I could explore other means if I were a doctor.

No, if this were a situation where a doctor could do something...

...but it's in vain to think about this.

In the end, I'm simply saying the same words as Hiyo.

On top of it, I'm pushing my feelings onto her.

This is what the words "don't mind me and rest" mean.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

If Hiyo sleeps now to never stand up again...

Sasamaru: (I will take care of her.)

I will use all my remaining time for Hiyo.

I came here with this determination.

Even if I forever lose the chance to tell her the words I should say...

...the priority is to consider her health.

Since she is overdoing it while considering my health, I cannot force my feelings.

Otherwise, I would have come here for nothing.

I must avoid these foolish acts I have been doing so far.

Hiyo: Understood.

Comprehending, Hiyo says this.

Not yet.
I still haven't caught up with her yet.
I'm still under her protection.

I managed to avoid the stupid move of confessing without thinking about her health, but she still prioritized my will.

I'm worthless.

Hiyo: Where are...the two?

Hiyo mutters this question while walking to the futon.

From her voice, I can feel that she has perceived it.

Harutsuge and Araragi weren't here when she woke up.

"Something" must have happened.

And they still haven't returned to the dormitory.

{\i1}If they were safe,{\i0} I would have told Hiyo about them, in order to not worry her.

And probably, she already imagined the "worst case."

Sasamaru: Harutsuge and Araragi...

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo guesses.

I'm sure this is the reason her eyes are swollen red.

Still, she was smiling when she saw me again.

Smiling at me.

That's right.
I know why she spread the "illness."

No matter how preposterous, the answer naturally appears when you know you have to connect the dots.

It's not strange to arrive at the conclusion of "she protected me."

So, she noticed long ago...

...that this is our last hour.

Pulling her hand, I take her to the futon.

Sasamaru: I understood.

Hiyo: Understood...what?

Sasamaru: I don't know how, but the illness has spread at the school because I "brought the autumn."

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: It's my fault.

I already knew this, but, after speaking out loud, I feel as if my throat was burning.

Sasamaru: No, it might not have been an illness. There are too many odd factors to think it is one.

But first, I must say this.

Sasamaru: But...it doesn't change that it's my fault.

Sasamaru: Teacher. I have a proposal.

Because I said that at that time.

Because I proposed that.

The red illness spread.

And Hiyo shouldered my sin.

Hiyo: Y...you're wrong!

Sasamaru: It's not wrong, Hiyo.

I myself don't know why I can let out a voice so calm.

Perhaps I have accepted it.

Looking at my eyes, Hiyo probably sensed that I realized she shouldered my sin.

Hiyo: Y...y-yes, that might have been the cause for this phenomenon to cover the school, but...

Hiyo: There were ones deeply impressed with the project. Did you forget how much everyone blessed us on the day the results were announced?

Sasamaru: I do remember.

Hiyo: Then! The project touched their hearts so much that the misunderstanding was blown away!

Sasamaru: Yeah, that might have been so.

Hiyo: There were ones saved too! Harutsuge-san! Araragi-san! They wanted an opportunity to once more get close to you...but this didn't quite come.

Hiyo: But, through that project, we returned to the relationship everyone wanted!

Sasamaru: But, Hiyo.

Hiyo: I too was saved!

One notch stronger, Hiyo's voice echoes in the silent dormitory.

Hiyo: By helping you! By being useful to everyone! I too became one of the "members"! I...received courage!

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: T-therefore...

Sasamaru: Thanks, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Ah.

Sasamaru: But still, it doesn't change that it's my fault.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Accepting all this, I am now here.

I should start with this.

Sasamaru: I truly thank you, Hiyo. Don't get me wrong. I don't regret creating that project. I'm not trying to belittle this.

Sasamaru: But first, I must accept "what" I have done. I have to accept this.

This is my place of departure.

If I turn my eyes away from this, I cannot go anywhere.

Sasamaru: Also, Hiyo.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Stop standing there and take a rest.

Since arriving in front of the futon, Hiyo was standing up the whole time.

Sasamaru: I am already here.

Sasamaru: Always here.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I won't go anywhere anymore.

I make Hiyo sit on top of the futon, and I sit on the tatami beside it.

Sasamaru: I am here. In the house of the four of us.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: I'm home.

Hiyo: Welcome home, honey.

Only the silence is drifting.

Even the passing of time has lost its meaning. The clock gently marking its passage has also lost its meaning.

She said, "I want you to hold my hand until I fall asleep."

I keep holding her hand as she so wishes.

No...I'm sure I just want to hold it.

Sasamaru: Are you asleep, Hiyo?

Hiyo: ...

A smile like the one she always does appears on my mouth.

So, I hold her hand a bit tighter.
Then, she holds back my hand a bit tighter too.

Sasamaru: So, you were awake.

Hiyo: I'm sorry. This is more than I deserve.

Sasamaru: More than you deserve?

Hiyo: A chance like this one, spending time together with you, exists only once in a lifetime.

Sasamaru: You silly.

As many times...
As many hours...

Sasamaru: I'll be here as much as you want.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo makes a somewhat awkward smile at my words.

That makes sense.

Sasamaru: Ah...that's not quite right.

Hiyo makes a nod gesture at these words.

Covering up, as if swallowing down her small disappointment.

Sasamaru: Maybe this is time for me to do this, because I too want to.

Sasamaru: As long as you allow me.

Hiyo: Those are exactly the words I'm unworthy of.

...Aah.

I'm finally able to face you.

But for you, who were facing me since long, long ago, our distance hasn't changed at all.

I'm not a person whom you must earnestly take pains to adjust to.

I'm a man who must keep running every single day to finally have a little time to be beside you.

I'm not abasing myself this time.

I truly think this.

But how should I tell her these feelings?

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: I'm always apologizing to you. I haven't accomplished my objective for coming here.

She wasn't awake for me.

"She wanted to be awake." I feel that these words are her real feelings.

She sensed this was her last chance.

Hiyo: Objective?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: What objective?

I don't know.

I don't know what to say.

I'm sure I won't figure out, no matter how much I think.

I'm incorrigibly thickheaded.

I'll never catch up because I started late with my life's lessons.

But I don't mean such an excuse.

Hiyo is a good girl.

I know more than anyone that she's a good girl.

So, I'll honestly throw it at her.

My bare and real feelings.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

//text on screen
I like you.

We will finally start.

"I'm scared of touching her."
There was a time when I thought this.

"She will get tainted if I touch."
"The white, radiant like the light, might darken in black."

There was a period when I, frightened like this, felt resistance in becoming closer.

But she taught me this is not true.

She said to me, "I like you."
Not just with words, she was always displaying this with her actions.

Taking a long time.
An absurd amount of time we can never get back.

I didn't realize this.
I didn't try to realize. It's inevitable that I receive capital punishment.

Harutsuge: You're too thickheaded. Sasamaru, die already.

Aah, exactly.

If punishment comes with this, I'll resign myself and accept it.

So...

Now that I know how hard she worked, I understand the meaning...
the weight of Hiyo leaving the "words" for last.

So, I want to start with words.

Otherwise, I won't be able to catch up with her.

Araragi: Then, go, Sasamaru-chan. Go to Hiyo-chan.

I'll go.

I arrive at the place where I can step on the shadow of her, who was always, always waiting.

I'm finally able to look her in the eyes.

I have simply caught up. All those days and its details are far from being enough, but...

...next, touch her hand.

I must do my best to be able to walk while pulling her hand.

Otherwise...

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: I'm satisfied already.

Because she says this.

If I were a man to trample on this, I should really die.

In order to be able to repay you, happily smiling at me...

...I must keep running.

To me, she seems to be standing and waiting for me, but she's really working more than anyone.

I must, run, run, and run to finally...
be close enough to be able to touch you, illuminated by the evening sun and with your shadow cast on a hill road.

This does not mean our hearts' distance.

Sasamaru: But I won't hold back anymore.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Awkward or laughable, I'll desperately chase after you, Hiyo.

Of course, not while trampling on your feelings.
Of course, not while hesitating at your feelings.
This is simply an excuse.

Even covered in mud, I will desperately keep chasing you.

Sasamaru: I think I'm lame.

Sasamaru: I don't mind if you laugh. But, in exchange, don't worry about me.

Sasamaru: Be more, much more selfish.

Sasamaru: Be so selfish that the words "I'm satisfied" don't come out.

Sasamaru: I will keep running.

Hiyo: But that's...

Somewhat hesitant, Hiyo extends her arm to me.

Firmly holding it, I tell her this.

Sasamaru: It's not "that." It's "the least I can do."

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I came here to tell you these feelings.

Tears are overflowing from Hiyo's eyes.
Now, I have the right to wipe these tears.

However, I have no right to shed tears together with her.

Even if the welling-up feelings numb the tip of my nose and make the corner of my eyes hot...
I'll endure it.

The next time I may cry...

...is when the girl I love brims with a smile without any consideration, with "I'm so happy, so happy that I can't bear it."

Hiyo: Then...may I make one selfish request?

I'm sure she says this because I asked.

As long as our relationship is like this, I cannot cry.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

I'll pile it up one by one.

The unfair leap can only be used at a "confession" that musters all my courage.

All that's left is to keep working hard.

Hiyo: Ki...

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: Kiss me...one more time.

But her wish is modest.

Charming, just like her.

Hiyo: It's the second time...isn't it?

Sasamaru: Yeah. We did it two times in one day.

Hiyo: No, err...not that.

Perhaps remembering when our lips touched each other, Hiyo reddens her cheeks.

Hiyo: The number of times I was...selfish to you.

Sasamaru: Is that so?

Was Hiyo selfish before?

No, wait a minute.

Sasamaru: When "playing house"?

Hiyo: Yes.

The events hazily at the corner of our memories.

A memory fragment of those days, which are fragmented to me.

Hiyo: I...at that time, I lost at rock-paper-scissors.

Aah.

As if shaking off the dust piled up on top of an object placed at the corner of the room...

...Hiyo's words make me remember it, although not clearly.

Sasamaru: That's right. The second playing house, Araragi was in the role of wife at the start.

Hiyo: Yes.

But, after losing at the rock-paper-scissors, Hiyo started crying and switched the wife's role with Araragi.

Hiyo: "Aah, I lost." At first, it was just this. But I remembered the first time I was in the role of the wife.

Hiyo: Then, I remembered the fun I was having at that time.

Hiyo: No, I realized {\i1}I was happy.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Fun and happy are different?

Thinking there's meaning in her rephrasing, I ask this.

Hiyo: There's a huge difference.

Embarrassed, Hiyo makes an awkward smile.

Hiyo: Playing house with everyone was very fun. There are no lies here.

Hiyo: But way more than that, I was really happy to be in the role of your wife.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: So, I suddenly became sad.

Hiyo: While looking at my hand that let out the scissors, I realized I was no longer your wife.

Hiyo: I thought I wouldn't be your wife anymore.

Sasamaru: ...

There.

Hiyo: Then, I started crying.

It's there.

Hiyo: I'm sorry. I'm really childish...back then and now.

Sasamaru: No, it's not strange.

I'm sure it's there.

Some time ago, I thought about "playing house."

At that time, I probably got close to her.

I was able to go the most important place, where I can touch the girl called "Kumigami Hiyo."

But at that time, I couldn't grasp it.
I couldn't grasp that faint figure.

Sasamaru: I want to talk more about that playing house.

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: And the second playing house, what did you think about it?

Hiyo: Of course, I had fu...I was happy.

Despite speaking with a smile almost spilling out...
Hiyo somewhat hesitates in continuing.

This is telling me that here lies the clue to understanding her.

Sasamaru: At the second time, we played doctor, didn't we?

Hiyo: Yes. At first, we simply mimicked a family with a husband, wife, and children. But, for some reason, it became a doctor husband and a nurse wife.

Sasamaru: So, Harutsuge and Araragi were the patients?

Hiyo: Yes. Araragi-san mistook it for an autopsy and ran away.

Sasamaru: Hahaha, you're right. And what about Harutsuge?

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san was bragging with "I hate shots. I'll cry if you point a needle at me. I'll cry, you hear?"

Sasamaru: Typical of Harutsuge.

Hiyo: But Harutsuge-san also said, "I might think about if it were {\i1}another needle{\i0}."

Halfway through, Hiyo's face becomes deep red.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: So, Harutsuge...has been Harutsuge since long ago.

Hiyo: Eh, ah, yes...ahem.

Well, leaving that aside...

Sasamaru: So, it was since then that you called me "honey."

She was in the role of my wife the first and second times.
Then, she started calling me that out of nowhere for no reason.

Hiyo: Eh...yes, force of habit.

Sasamaru: ...

I confirmed this before, too.

But...

Sasamaru: Long ago, you were lisping, right? If you were writing "honey"...kinda writing more cursively or something.

Hiyo: S-stop that...please forget about it.

I knew it. Hiyo avoids the subject when I try to step into it.

Of course, I don't want to force an answer out of her.

I already used an unfair trick.

I just want to know...
to know more about the girl called Kumigami Hiyo.

And I want to understand.

Sasamaru: (And we were always together.)

Enveloped by her consideration, I couldn't notice parts of her.

I didn't try to notice them.

Kumigami Hiyo's weak parts.

Sasamaru: Which reminds me, we only played house two times?

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Well, the third time...didn't happen, right?

Hiyo: Y-yes...that is correct.

Sasamaru: ...?

I simply brought this up to continue the topic, but Hiyo averts her eyes.

{\i1}Third time?{\i0}

Is there something here?

Sasamaru: Ah...and since the playing doctor the second time, you started preferring nursing clothes, right?

Sasamaru: Nursing clothes is an odd way to call it, but it's the clothes a female nurse might wear.

Hiyo: L...let me see. I wonder if it was after that.

Sasamaru: Yeah. Until then, you wore "noble lady" type of clothes.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Yeah, so, it was since then that you started wearing clothes with today's design.

Hiyo: That might...be so.

Sasamaru: So, is this because your family is from a lineage of doctors?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

She cannot lie.
But she cannot say.
Such is the behavior Hiyo sometimes show.

Sasamaru: (No doubts, then.)

This has already become a conviction.

A large element that composes Kumigami Hiyo is within that "playing house."

She calls me "honey" and prefers the clothes of a nurse.

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

At this moment, I notice something like a small discomfort.

For us, the "playing house" was from quite long ago.

Recalling with, "aah, that did happen," while nostalgically reminiscing the past.

Despite this, I can't feel "nostalgia" from Hiyo's way of speaking.

As if she was talking while reminiscing about something recent rather than from long ago.

Sasamaru: (But why?)

The moment I notice this, one possibility comes to mind.

Perhaps, to Hiyo, the "playing house" is...

Sasamaru: (The "second time" is still ongoing?)

Inside my mind, the girl called Kumigami Hiyo now {\i1}fits perfectly{\i0} after I arrive at this hypothesis.

It wasn't faint.
Of course, I was watching her so far in my own way.

But there's a part I'm unable to touch, despite being close to her.

More importantly, I feel that I finally was able to touch on a "weak part."

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Y...yes.

Sasamaru: I said it, right? I came here to confess to you.

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: A while ago, I {\i1}simply said it.{\i0} I {\i1}simply told it.{\i0} It's {\i1}not enough{\i0} at all.

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: I will attack as many times as it takes until the girl I like turns over to me. This is what fall in love means, right, Hiyo?

Hiyo: Err...what do you mean?

Sasamaru: As long as it doesn't bother the other party, one will come again after improving oneself. Isn't this right?

Hiyo: H-honey?

Sasamaru: Am I wrong?

Hiyo: T...that might be so, but...

Hiyo: I-I...err, umm, adore you and...

Sasamaru: I'm not a good match for you.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: So, give me one more chance.

Sasamaru: Let me tell my feelings one more time.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I beg you.

Now...

Now, it will reach further than before.

Sasamaru: Do you remember that day? When you told me, "please be my friend"?

Hiyo: ...Yes. Of course I remember.

Sasamaru: I was saved because you told me that.

Hiyo: N-not at all...the likes of me can't...

Sasamaru: It's not {\i1}"the likes of me."{\i0}

Sasamaru: {\i1}Thanks to you{\i0}, I was saved.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I know you're modest. I know this more than anyone.

Sasamaru: But, no matter how modest you are, I will never think it's {\i1}'the likes of you.'{\i0}

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Okay, Hiyo?

Sasamaru: Because you became my friend, because you called me the "Four Noble Ones"...

Sasamaru: ...and, because you were always there supporting me...

Sasamaru: It's because of all this that I now can live as "Suu Sasamaru."

Sasamaru: The root of the man who loves you is {\i1}here.{\i0} It is {\i1}here.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Please do not forget this.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: This is my "confession."

Hiyo: H-hone...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Hiyo: B...but, err...I don't know what to say.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: I...umm, should I be so happy like this?

Not yet.

It's still not enough.

I have only taken the first step.

It's still not enough. Not to her feelings, nor to the sadness she kept pinning down, nor to her tears.

The third time our lips overlap each other...

...is when I forcefully lay myself on top of the worrying Hiyo.

Hiyo: H-hone...

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Sasamaru: Something pulled me.

What a clumsy excuse.

But this is the first time I realize this is the so-called "uncontrollable feelings."

Hiyo: Err...I...

Hiyo: Honey, if you so desire, I'm always...

Yes, she was always saying this.

But "to be allowed by someone" is different from "being pampered by someone."

Now, I am none other than the latter.

Sasamaru: Sorry. Am I heavy?

Saying this, I raise my posture.

And...

Sensing a small resistance and moving my eyes toward it, I see Hiyo grabbing my clothes.

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: Please...don't stop.

It reached.
I grasped it.
And she grasped back.

Then...

Hiyo: Honey, I too understand a bit of...the feelings for you to stop.

Hiyo: If this is the case, please don't stop.

Sasamaru: ...

Then, what I must do now is...

"Don't think too hard."
Harutsuge would say this.

"It's very typical of Sasamaru-chan, but I don't think it's right to be overly-serious at the crucial times."
Araragi would say this.

I too think this is true.

So, I slide my lips on Hiyo's neck.

Hiyo: Hmm!

There's no need to think hard.

If there are feelings of craving each other, just crave to one heart's content.

Hiyo: Nnm...ngh...

Her smooth skin is dry, as if displaying the chilly air.

Every time my lips touch it, it is tinged with moisture.

I'm entranced by this sensation, as if my lips were warming her up.

I now know well the meaning of "a woman's skin leads men astray."

Sasamaru: Does it tickle?

Hiyo: Hmm...your breath is so close.

Sasamaru: So, it does tickle.

I'm inexperienced.
Or rather, it's my first time.

I feel really regretful.

Hiyo: I feel...you so close that your breath touches me.

...Makes sense.

A man's heartbeat rises when the owner of this skin is nearby.

All the more if it's the woman whom I fell in love with.
All the more if it's the woman I treasure.

Sasamaru: I too feel you closer than before.

I can't quite change myself.

But it is I who wish for a change.
It was I who never lived up to her straightforward feelings toward me.

So, change.
In order to obtain what you want, first change yourself.
She has been accepting me all this time.

I have given her nothing but wounds. Even so, she still craves me.

Not embarrassed...
nor hesitant...
and not even afraid.

Now, in my arms.

The cutest girl in the world is entrusting herself to me.

The moment my hand touches Hiyo's clothes, she twitches.

I'm sure this is because she guesses my intention.

Her expression with a bit of hesitation isn't from disliking it.
Now, I honestly think this is from embarrassment.

I am unable to take off my hand.
Just this makes me actually feel myself changing.

I'm happy for this change in myself, honestly thinking, "aah, she's so cute."

//Hiyo H-scene start

Hiyo's skin is exposed.

The birthday suit of the one most important to me.

The figure she shows only to me.

Hiyo: I'm...embarrassed...

Ah, yes. I must not forget.

The one mustering the courage is not me, it's her.

What should I say at a time like this?

Sasamaru: ...

I'll stop.

Rather than thinking too much, I'll throw my honest feelings onto her.

Sasamaru: You're beautiful.

With this single word, the red spreading on Hiyo's cheeks increases.

This is  the moment that makes me feel that none other than she is looking at me, Suu Sasamaru, and no one else.

I'm sure it was like this until now, and I didn't notice.

Rather than feeling a weight about this, I'm now simply happy about it.

Sasamaru: Don't be shy. Show me more.

After being told this, she moves her hand away despite stirring. Hiyo is so lovely.

Hiyo: ...Hmm...

But her hand stops on top of her chest.

Sasamaru: So, it's really embarrassing?

It's not good to force it.
Let's go slowly.

Hiyo: It's...not that.

Perhaps unconsciously feeling shy because of the situation, Hiyo lightly waves her head.

Hiyo: To show myself to you...to have you looking at me is, for me, a great delight, but...

What Hiyo says while hesitating is...

Hiyo: My breasts...are small, aren't they?

So, she was worried about that.

But I'm sure this is a serious issue for Hiyo.

It's Hiyo we're talking about. If I say, "I don't mind," she will think I'm being considerate.

Then...

Sasamaru: Yes, they're small.

Hiyo: Uuhh...

Sasamaru: But I'm sure these breasts are more lovely than anyone's.

Then, my only choice is to honestly open my heart to her.

Sasamaru: I didn't want to see large breasts. I wanted to see the breasts of the girl I like.

These are my true feelings.

Sasamaru: So, show me more.

Hiyo: ...

After my repeated words, Hiyo has now resigned herself.

Sure, they are modest breasts, but...

...for this same reason, as if faithfully representing the woman that is Kumigami Hiyo...
on the top of the slight undulations, nipples that could be called undeveloped are modestly being dyed in a pale pink color.

Sasamaru: I'll touch.

I don't ask, "may I touch it?"

"I'm scared of touching her."
There was a time when I thought this.

"She will get tainted if I touch."

"The white, radiant like the light, might darken in black."

Sasamaru: ...

But now, I don't ask, "may I touch it?"

I won't even ask this.

Hiyo: Mmnn!

Just by applying a slight force, my fingertips are pushed into her soft skin.

Like toying with the sensation of the flabby flesh, my fingers change the shape of her breasts.

At this moment, I obtain an actual feeling.

The actual feeling of "in the end, this is how interpersonal relationships are."

You hurt merely by touching a little.
You break merely by applying a little force.
This is interpersonal relationships.

So, I'm scared.
So, so scared I can't help it.
Everyone knows about this pain.

But...
if this is interpersonal relationships...
if this is something natural...

if the other party is accepting me...
if I'm willing to shoulder the same pain...

Hiyo: Mmnnn!

We embrace each other.

Hiyo: Ah...mmnn...

Hiyo's breasts are soft, as if she was enveloping me.

I want to enjoy this sensation forever and ever.
And while I'm sliding the pad of my finger over her chest and describing a circle, my thumb suddenly touches the tip's protuberance.

Hiyo: Aah!

Then, Hiyo's muffled voice becomes one step louder.

Hiyo: Ah...aaahh...

After touching it, which has not enough stiffness to be called protuberance, it gradually increases in color.

Every time I toy and knead it, every time I push it, it acquires stiffness to be called protuberance.

Hiyo: Nngh...mnn.

It's curious.
The more I fiddle, the more the red at the tip of the nipple changes its shape.

Hiyo's body changes every time I act, as if accepting it.

Sasamaru: ...

I may be somewhat befuddled despite being absorbed in it.

And with moist eyes, Hiyo asks this.

Hiyo: Aah...mmnn...what...is the...matter?

Sasamaru: Well, I was thinking, "so, this is what making love is."

Sasamaru: I was savoring what you taught me.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Sorry for taking so long to notice.

Hiyo: No, I will wait...as many times, as much as needed.

...Of course.

Sasamaru: But I won't let you wait anymore.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: I won't let you wait.

Hiyo: Yes.

Then, following the natural course, my hand starts moving to seek out all of her.

What a greedy hand it is.
Is it enraptured by happiness?

The moment I touch what is covering Hiyo's lower part, she trembles with a startle, as I thought.

But still, she is at my mercy.

She is always obedient and thinks only about my well-being.

Thinking only about "being seen by me" rather than "being seeing by a man for the first time."

I can tell her feelings by looking at her expression.

Aah, I'm able to notice she is a little bit scared.

She's nervous about "what I think of her."

Sasamaru: I'm sure...

Hiyo: Y-yes.

Hiyo is unable to hide her confusion of me speaking out.

Sasamaru: I'm sure the word "lovely" exists for this moment.

The words "please don't be nervous" should be said after I become a more reliable man.

So, I honestly tell her.

My honest, stark-naked feelings.

Sasamaru: You're beautiful. Very...very beautiful.

Hiyo: Th...thank you very much.

Hiyo's face that is red up to the ears becomes even redder.

Hiyo: I'm happy it is...fit for your admiration.

Sasamaru: ...

Enough with these words.

Sasamaru: But rather than feeling that it's "beautiful"...I feel that it's "lovely."

Hiyo: I too...feel so.

Hiyo: In this single moment, when you look at me...I too can feel that my body is lovely.

Just you watch.

I'll make it so you can't say that.

I'll make Hiyo realize how valuable she is to me.

My fingertips touch Hiyo's cherished place.

Hiyo: Ah!

It is a sensation so soft that I can't hide my surprise.

But the entrance, tightly closed even after I trace its slit, is almost denying any trespasser.

It is the softly closed place connected to Hiyo's inner side.

It's a girl's special place.

Sasamaru: ...

My fingertips reflexively stiff every time I gulp.

I'm hesitating at this sensation, that it might break if I touch it.

Carefully, carefully, as to not hurt it any more.

But, in order to give one more step towards her...
I touch her genitals.

Hiyo: Aah...mnn...mnnn.

And every time, she reacts with a stir, with a combination of the happiness of being touched and the shyness of the place no one touched before being fiddled with.

This really is very lovely.

At this moment, I learn that it's always this reaction from girls that stirs up men.

Of course, there's also sexual excitement.

But what I obtain the most is "courage."
This is the lovely reaction of a girl entrusting herself to me.

It's her real face that she only shows to me.

This itself becomes "courage" that stirs up men.

Similar to a fever, a strong will of "I'll make this girl happier than anyone else" wells up.

For this reason, men crave.

Deeper, deeper, thoroughly craving the body of the only girl so lovely they can't help it.

As to grasp every single inch.

It is the joy of taking off the clothes hiding her body, touching the exposed skin, and fiddle with it as much as wanted.

Sasamaru: (Wait.)

At this moment, I suddenly notice a frightening possibility.

For a while now, I've been totally immersed in Hiyo's loveliness, but...

Sasamaru: (Maybe...I should take off my clothes too?)

Why did I take off only Hiyo's clothes?

And I even noticed that Hiyo is the one mustering her courage more than anyone. What am I doing?

Sasamaru: (Huh? Wait, shouldn't the man take off his clothes first?)

Should I have taken mine off already?
Did I miss the timing to take them off?
Hiyo didn't point it out because she's kind?

In times like this, the order is...

Aaaaaahh, I don't know because I'm a virgin!!

Sasamaru: (A-anyway, I must not let Hiyo be embarrassed alone.)

Then, I hurriedly start taking off my clothes.

Sasamaru: (Huh? Wait...huh?)

However, it is the virgin Sasamaru who cannot nimbly take them off.

And it's just a shirt and trousers. Just shirt and trousers!

Whoawhoawhoawhoa.

Sasamaru: (Laugh. Laugh at me. Hiyoooooooo.)

Wait, this is not the time to say that.

This position is at fault.
It's because I'm trying to take off my clothes in this pinning-down position I'm not used to.

I stand up, try to untie the trouser's lace, and...

Sasamaru: (Aaaaah, Hiyo is looking. Hurry, hurry.)

The more I panic, the more I can't untie it.

Sasamaru: Ah.

At this moment, I finally notice.

Hiyo: What...is the matter?

Sasamaru: A bath.

Hiyo: If you are talking about taking a bath, I already took one when you were sleeping.

Sasamaru: Not you. I didn't take one.

Hiyo: E...err?

Hiyo is blinking in surprise.

Sasamaru: But...you don't want it like this, right?

Hiyo: ...

After I say this, Hiyo...

...with timid movements, lowers my trousers.

Sasamaru: Hi-Hiyo!?

Hiyo: I don't want you to think I'm a...woman who worries about that.

Sasamaru: Ah, no, I don't mean that.

I mean, I was worried about that, but...

...this is...
the position for {\i1}that{\i0}, right?

Hiyo: You have...touched me a lot. So, now, I will...have the privilege of doing you.

Aaah, I knew it. It's {\i1}that{\i0}.

This position is...

...a kind of oral sex done in foreplay. A position also called "Song of the Plover" in ancient Japanese and also related to divine rituals in ancient Egypt.

Thinking about Hiyo's personality, I can understand how it has come to this, but...
I can't let her do this on her first time.

Sasamaru: No, Hiyo...huh, what's wrong?

The moment I call out...
for some reason, Hiyo is making an almost surprised face.

Fixedly staring at...
err, my...
sexual organ, which also possesses the urinary function and has a total of three erectile tissues in the inner side, including the corpus cavernosum and the corpus spongiosum on both sides.

Hiyo: It's...more splendid than at that time.

Sasamaru: That time?

After I tilt my head while still confused, Hiyo shows a somewhat enthusiastic expression.

Hiyo: I-it's all right. This time I...

Sasamaru: This time?

I again tilt my head.
What is..."this time"?

Sasamaru: (Ah!)

Don't tell me...Hiyo already...with someone else?

No, this is nothing to fret about, but...
my stomach gets heavier a little.
Just a little bit.

Hiyo: Umm...

Huh? Isn't this scene like a love confession from her past days?

A story like "this is how my love life has been, but now I like you, please accept me"?

Hahahahahahahahaha.

Yes, I will accept, of course.
It's obvious I will.
It was just a little bit unexpected, just a little bit about to blow the fuse, just a little bitbitbit...

Hiyo: Umm...the other day, with Harutsuge-san...

With Harutsuge!?
Now THIS is unexpected.

Hiyo: And also with Araragi-san.

And now Araragi too has joined!?

In short, this is a forbidden play between three girls.

Hiyo: Once, while you were sleeping...

Sasamaru: All that beside the sleeping me!?

Hiyo: No, not beside...I should call it, on top.

Sasamaru: Why so acrobatic!?

Hiyo: While you were sleeping, your...well...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Umm, I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: Err...this isn't a love confession from your past days?

Hiyo: B-by no means! I've always adored only you, my first love!

Then, Hiyo reveals the {\i1}thing{\i0} she did to my {\i1}thing{\i0} while I was asleep, on the day off after the Ayanashisai ended.

Sasamaru: ...

Err, how do I say...this is very embarrassing.
Or rather, what on earth were {\i1}you all{\i0} doing to the sleeping me?

Moreover, I don't remember that.

Well, I was sleeping, so, of course I won't remember, but that's kinda regrettable in and of itself.

Hiyo: Umm...you are angry...aren't you?

I'm not angry.
Not angry, but, err...I don't know how to react.

Hiyo: I'm sorry for doing as I wanted.

Look, Hiyo got it wrong because I'm keeping silent.

I must say something.
Yes, something clever.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Y-yes.

The present me can do it.

Words that can express that I'm not bothered and also be considerate of Hiyo's feelings.

Show her the new reborn me!
All right!!

Sasamaru: I'll forgive you if you make me feel good again.

The hell I just said!?
What the hell did I just say!?

Hiyo: ...

Look, Hiyo is with her eyes unbelievably round!

Sasamaru: No, wa-wa-wa-wa-wa...

Hiyo: Understood.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: I'll do my best!

What on earth did you understand!?

Hiyo: Hmm...

The soaring tower of flesh, oozing hasty drops at its tip, is twitching.

Hiyo is licking it with the tip of her tongue.

Hiyo: Hmm...mnn...mmnnn...

Sasamaru: Oh!

Perhaps pleased by the voice I let out, Hiyo, after making almost a giggle, licks the trunk even more.

Her movements are still clumsy, not enough to be called a technique, but...
I can feel a deep love from her, thoroughly and carefully licking it.

This further increases my excitement.

Hiyo: Mmn...mmmnnn...

While licking, she strokes the trunk with her hand, stimulating it.

Immediately after, she places her palm on my testicles, smoothly stimulating them, too.

I guess she is doing to me everything that comes to her mind.

She is eagerly searching, "how can I make him feel good?"

Hiyo: Aah...ah, mmnn...

From her behavior, I can infer she is wholeheartedly pleasing me.

Exactly like the girl who called me a patient and kept devoting herself.

Sasamaru: Oh...

Even without technique, it actually feels good because her movements are careful.

Hiyo: Ah...

Hiyo seems happy after I show her my reaction.

After repeating this exchange several times, I eventually notice.

It seems Hiyo has started carefully, thoroughly, and also intensively focusing on the areas I react to.

Sasamaru: (H-huh?)

Several minutes after Hiyo started.
It has turned into an odd situation.

Like her personality, she is doing it very carefully, but, technically, the clumsiness has not completely disappeared.

Suddenly, the welling-up pleasure has now a world of difference from a while ago.

Hiyo: Mmnn...I'm sorry, I'm still inexperienced.

Hiyo pulls out the swelling from her mouth and regretfully tells this.

Hiyo: If possible, tell me what you wish. If I mistake, please don't hesitate and unsparingly instruct me.

Hiyo: I want to make you feel even better.

Sasamaru: Ah, well...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: Like that...feels very good.

Kumigami Hiyo should not be underestimated.

With only this time and the previous one I don't remember at all, she is displaying such growth.

Hiyo: ...

After making an expression of surprise at my words, she eventually smiles.

Hiyo: Hehe...I'm honored.

After moistening her eyes from the joy of the act, she again takes the glans to her mouth.

Sasamaru: Oh!

Even this has already turned into experienced movements.

Surpassing others through an accumulation of effort, Hiyo has obtained the title of wise.
Unable to settle with the single word 'genius,' she catches on quickly.

So, a "genius of hard work" excels even at getting the hang of things.

Hiyo: Mmnn...mmnnn...mmmnnnn...

Sasamaru: (D-drat.)

I'm almost coming.

Even if Hiyo improves quickly, it's no laughing matter for a girl with little experience to make me come.

But whatever about trying to look cool about this. If this continues, I'll come in Hiyo's mouth.

I shouldn't let it out without warning.
It's unthinkable.

Sasamaru: Hi-Hiyo. Sorry, but...

This is so embarrassing that I'm hesitant to say this.

But, if this continues, it's only a matter of time.

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: I-I'm...almost coming.

Hiyo: ...

After my words, Hiyo...

...is with her eyes sparkling.

Sasamaru: Wa-wai...Hiyo!

Hiyo violently moves her head, giving a strong rubbing stimulus.

Hiyo: Mnn, mmn, mmn, mmn.

Aah, so, I put a spark in Hiyo's spirit.
Despite giving strong stimuli, she is using the tip of her tongue, increasing my pleasure even more.

Sasamaru: I-I'm coming! Like this, it'll be in your mouth!

A sweet numbness wells up at my crotch.

Increased so much that my will is now powerless, the climax sensation is heading for its release, trying to explode.

Sasamaru: Hiyo!!

Hiyo: Mmmnnn!

The semen is being released into Hiyo's mouth.

Receiving it, she painfully closes her eyes.

Sasamaru: S-sorry!

I search for a tissue for her to immediately spit it out, but Hiyo...

...drinks the semen with a gulp.

Sasamaru: Hi-Hiyo.

Hiyo: I'm glad.

Then, Hiyo smiles as if she was relieved from the bottom of her heart.

Hiyo: This time, I was able to neatly take it in my mouth.

Despite being surprised, I'm aroused by these words.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

My heartbeat increases. The arousal is enough to make me tremble.

Aah, she really is cuter than anyone.

Sasamaru: Nngh!

At this moment, a pain as if my heart was grabbed runs about.

Sasamaru: Ugh...nngh.

It's no wonder.

My body is again at its limit.

I probably don't have much time left.

Hiyo: Honey?

Hiyo makes a surprised expression.

The expression filled with happiness until a moment ago is now tinged with a shadow.

Sasamaru: (Don't screw with me.)

Show what you got, Suu Sasamaru.

She was smiling just now.
She was smiling.

I must not take away her smile.
Never again.

Sasamaru: It's nothing.

Smile.
Make the same smile you had until a moment ago.

Hiyo has...
endured a feeling much, much more painful.

{\i1}It's merely dying anyway.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (I...)

I'm happy.

Now, at this moment...
This moment when I can be together with Hiyo...

I'm so happy that I'm able to say, "I can die in peace."

I finally grasp it.
I finally grasp the hand that she has always been holding out to me.

I want to be together with Hiyo forever and ever.
Yes.

Sasamaru: (I want to become one with Hiyo.)

This is my wish.

I'll smile.
No, I want her to smile.

Despite being in this situation, I...

My self who is at my crotch is towering.
Despite having just come.
Despite my screaming body.

"When facing death, humans instinctively urge their reproductive functions." It's as if these words I heard somewhere were put into practice.

Sasamaru: I want to become one with you.

I want to savor this happiness.

Savor, savor...

...savor so much that it smashes my life.
Which is what I want.

I am in love.

Now, I am in love.

Then...

There's nothing better if I'm able to die while inside the happiness of becoming one with the woman I fell in love with.

Hiyo: I...

The answer she speaks is...

Hiyo: I am always with you.

She must have guessed everything about the situation.

Because she is watching me more than anyone.

On top of all this, her will of "I want to become one."

I lift the leg of Hiyo, who is lying down, and go down on my knees.

This is a position almost like kneeling.

I wonder to whom I'm kneeling.

To the god who granted me this happiness?

Sasamaru: (Don't make me laugh.)

Who the hell would kneel to a god?

I am kneeling to none other than Kumigami Hiyo.

To the fact that I met you.
To the fact that I fell in love with you.
And to the fact that we can love each other.

I now will pay my full respect.

Sasamaru: Ready?

Hiyo: Yes...always.

Despite being scared of something entering her body, Hiyo says, "always."

"Always."

You were always enduring.

And always prepared.

Hiyo: Ah!

...Slowly.

The glans touches her slit.

Spreading the petals, it starts entering her vagina.

Hiyo: Ah...ah...!

Her insides are tight but warm.

Her coiling sexual fluids are almost like her tears.

Like the tears she kept swallowing down.

Hiyo: Mmnn...mmmnn!

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

She is smiling.

She chose the road of being filled by happiness before twisting her face in pain.

The happiness of becoming one with me.

Sasamaru: (That's...)

That's not possible!

Of course it hurts.

Consideration.

The warmth that always, at all times, kept running after the good-for-nothing me.

Sasamaru: (Even in a time...like this...)

I feel my chest tightening.

I personally feel that "it has permeated her."

She is so used to it that she doesn't show pain even at this time.

She who, despite always lending her strength when I'm suffering, never shows her pain to me when she's suffering.

This is proof of my worthlessness.

//choice
Stop.
Do not stop.

//1st choice: Stop.

Sasamaru: (No.)

We aren't making love for this.

We didn't become one to make Hiyo suffer even more.

Hiyo: Ho...honey?

Hiyo is oddly looking up at me, who stopped moving halfway.

Sasamaru: Let's stop.

I wonder if I should say, "sorry."

I wonder if I should rub my forehead on the ground and apologize with "sorry."

But this position has long passed.

First of all, Hiyo does not wish for an apology.

Sasamaru: Let's...stop.

So, what I'm able to say is simply to tell Hiyo the end of our act with "let's stop."

She simply says, "yes."

I understand the reason she honestly nods.

I'm assaulted by an unbearable frustration precisely because I understand.

If only I had noticed your feelings sooner.

I wonder if it wouldn't have come to this if we weren't in this situation now, if we had more time to shorten our distance.

...Let's stop.

There's no meaning in the words "what if."
I already know this is just a mere consolation.

Sasamaru: (I'll accept it.)

"This also is one of the results."

"The result of the 'present' me and Hiyo lying down together is this."

Nothing will change by lamenting: "if we had more time."

Then, we lie down and fall asleep.

Hiyo: Good night, honey.

Into a sleep we might never again wake up from.

When I wake up, Hiyo is beside me no more.

Sasamaru: ...

Perhaps she disappeared right after falling asleep.
There is no warmth remaining in the futon.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

I know, but I still call out.

I was prepared for this, but...

Sasamaru: Hiyo!

The fingertips that, out of nowhere, were grasping the futon are now trembling.

Sasamaru: HIYOOOOOOOOO!!

I wonder how much time I have left.

I wonder how much time I should wait until I can see you.

Sasamaru: Ah.

I can tell my body is becoming faint.

With the naked eye...
and with the heart, I realize that "the time has come."

Sasamaru: (Did I wake up...only to experience the feeling of losing you?)

Then, it really is nasty.

I dare say it is "nasty."
I'm with an expression unfit for the situation, but this is fine.

I don't want to harbor dispirited feelings at this moment when I'll disappear.

Because...
Araragi is there. Harutsuge is there.

And most importantly, Hiyo is there.

There is nothing to fear, then. I have only the happiness of our re-encounter.

Sasamaru: Goodbye.

Goodbye to this school.

All this happened, but you were my admiration.

Sasamaru: (I'm glad I came.)

I sure am lucky to be able to depart while thinking this.

Well...

...I'll close my eyes.

//choice end
//2nd choice: Do not stop.

The choice of "let's stop here" crosses the tip of my mind.

"We aren't making love for this."

"We didn't become one to make Hiyo suffer even more."

Sasamaru: ...

But an even stronger feeling wells up from inside me.

Sasamaru: (Resolve yourself.)

I delve inside.

I advance while slowly performing the piston movements, deeper and deeper.

One moment is fine.

Please, may she share her pain with me.

Hiyo: Nnnnngh!

Not yet.

Hiyo: Nnnngh!

Not enough.

Hiyo.

I came to confess to you.

And now, I'm doing this to become one with you.

Hiyo: Ngh...nnggghh...

Please, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Aahhh.

Now, finally...

She is exposing her pain to me.

Her "pain" she not even once showed until now.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

I stop the movements.

We are finally...
finally {\i1}connected.{\i0}
So...

Sasamaru: Now, I want you to give me pain so I can feel your pain.

I say this.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Sorry, I was too forceful. Did it hurt?

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: So, now, I...

In order for the pain she kept enduring also fall on myself.

At this moment, we will be able to become "one" for the first time.

Hiyo: That is...not necessary.

She would say this. But this is not right.

Sasamaru: It is necessary. I'm always making you cry.

Otherwise, our relationship will be built on top of your restraint.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I beg you.

Hiyo: For me, I cannot feel this is necessary.

Sasamaru: But why!?

Hiyo should understand the meaning of my words.

I'm still depending on her consideration.

But her expression is saying, "that's not it."

Hiyo: You are already feeling pain. For you, to hurt others is more painful than anything.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Hiyo: The "pain" you so wish...is already inside you.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: So, we are already connected. Without losing to the illness' "pain," we are connected by this "pain." I'm feeling an unprecedented joy.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: I'm sorry for not being clear with my behavior.

The expression you showed at that time...

...was really happiness.

Hiyo: Now, let's connect through happiness.

Yeah.

You are Kumigami Hiyo.

I'm glad I fell in love with you.

I again start moving my hips.

Hiyo: Nnnngh!

Every time I slowly move my hips, Hiyo still makes an expression of enduring something.
The pain is about to overflow at any moment now.

Despite this, she appears to be feeling happiness along with it.

Aah.
That's right.

Sasamaru: (This is how it is.)

I didn't think about it.

"Beyond the pain."

There is also happiness there.

This is happiness, and delight.

I can truly feel we are connected, because it's two sides of the same coin.

I sip the juice of happiness from exposing our pains to each other.

This is what it means to "become one."

Hiyo: Aah...nnngh!

For this reason, the change produced in her is fast.

The meaning of "one."

And the "end" is lifting us both.

As if answering her, I increase the piston speed.

Hiyo: Ah...hah...aaah!

I can tell from her skin that the delight is increasing more than the pain, changing it into an even bigger happiness.

"It feels good," making pleasure run through my body too.

With the impatience and anxiety having disappeared, I can truly feel we are connected in order to lift each other up.

Hiyo: Aaah! Aaaah.

Suddenly, there is the feeling of the wall of flesh coiling around my swelling, deep inside her.

This sensation—not holding it with the hand nor putting it in the mouth, but inserting it in parts I never knew before—is the feeling of being enveloped by Kumigami Hiyo.

It should feel good; it should be pleasant.
This is what "making love" means.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, I...feel good.

Normally, I would never say this, but...
I feel I may say this to Hiyo.

But not depending on her like "Hiyo will accept if I say it" from before.

I can say this as something natural, because we are connected to each other.

Hiyo: I...too...this feels...good.

And Hiyo is the same.

Hiyo: Ho...ney...you're...so...deep...inside me.

Sasamaru: How does that feel?

Hiyo: I feel...you wanting...me.

Sasamaru: Yes, Hiyo. I want you.

Hiyo: Me too...me too!

With the feelings of wanting each other aroused, we immerse ourselves in the act.

Hiyo: Aaaaahhh!

It is so deeply, deeply thrust that its base can no longer be seen.

Hiyo: Aah...! Aah...aaah! Aaaahh!

After I pull it out up to the base, as if lifting my hips...
Hiyo breathes in, almost bending backwards.

Hiyo: Aaahhh!

After I thrust it deep inside in one go...
Hiyo now breathes out, almost bending forward.

Hiyo and I, we two are simply immersed in the act.

The more we immerse, the more the sensation of becoming one enraptures us.

Sasamaru: Nngh!

I can only see Hiyo.

Hiyo: Nnnnnghhh!

And Hiyo too can only see myself.

Inside this repeated passionate connection, our excitation reaches the zenith.

We will disappear.
I already know this.

Our first and last intercourse, while glancing at the word "end."

Hiyo: Ho...honey!

Nothing will remain.

After we disappear, nothing will remain.

Hiyo: Ho...ney...I...I...!

Hiyo: If...we're going to...disappear like this...I have nothing to...!

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Yes, nothing will remain.

But the regret too won't remain.

Our excitement has broken the critical point. Naturally, a sweet numbness wells up below my abdomen.

Sasamaru: (A-already!?)

I think, "no."

I want to continue this act of becoming one with Hiyo.

I want to be connected to Hiyo more and more.

But the limit is cruelly near.

Unable to resist, I move, seeking Hiyo more and more.

Sasamaru: (No!!)

I intensely, intensely think this.

At least for this last moment, let me enjoy as much as I want!

Hiyo: Aah...aaaahh...aaaahhh!

But Hiyo too is reaching her limit.

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

{\i1}The regret too won't remain?{\i0}

At this moment, a question arises.

From the start, she...
Kumigami Hiyo has accepted everything.

From the start, she was permitting anything I did.

Not a single complaint nor getting angry.

Is this...
because she likes me?

Sasamaru: (It's not...is it?)

I now know.
I know because it's now.

There are times when you "get angry because you like," right?

And to keep all this only in the feeling of "like" is just...

Sasamaru: (There's...still something.)

One more step.
One more step to the other side.

Even if this hand is touching the "her" not hidden by clothes...
there is a territory I haven't reached.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo.)

She has not lied.

She really is thinking of "I don't care if we disappear like this."

While still holding "it" that I haven't grasped.

Hiyo: Aaaaahhhh! Hoooneeeeyyyy!!

And we, just like this...

...arrive at the climax, as if being enveloped by a white mist.

Sasamaru: Ugh...uughh.

Every time I tremble, semen is released into Hiyo's vagina.

Hiyo: Aaah...aah, honey's...inside me...

Hiyo is dearly looking at it.

Hiyo: How...wasteful.

Forever watching...
the proof that we became one overflowing from her womb.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes...honey.

Sasamaru: Hiyo!!

Hiyo: Ho...ney?

With a moistened and curious gaze, Hiyo is looking at me, who abruptly embraces her.

Sasamaru: I want to be close to you more than anyone!!

Hiyo: eh...

Sasamaru: So, please...

At this moment...

//Hiyo H-scene end

Sasamaru: (Ah.)

It is not that child's responsibility.

That child simply was born.

She was born because we desired her.

What sin is there?

That child simply was born as the child of the devil.

It's natural that the devil's child is {\i1}like that.{\i0}

What sin is there?

Here is where the sin lies.

Here.

{\i1}It is here.{\i0}

I remember saying it, God.

"Do not ever mistake with whom the sin lies."

I heard the capital mobilized.

And my daughter...

They dispatched the greatest military commander to suppress the demoness.

There's not a moment to lose.

If she is defeated, the sin will become hers.
	
She will pass away while shouldering the sin.

She will die not as a child born from our desire, but as a detestable demoness.

I'll take it.

I'll take all of that sin.

So, stop blaming that child.

That child was born from our desire.

Our irreplaceable child.

It's all my fault that she became {\i1}like that.{\i0}

I am at fault.

Only I am at fault.

Please understand this.

My wife.

My dear wife.

I am happy to have met you.

The days I spent with you are my irreplaceable treasure.

Forgive me, unable to remain married for life.

I don't mind if you despise me.

But please, do not be sad.

Think of this as a stupid man dying by the roadside.

I can bear anything but to see your crying face.

My wife.

My dear wife.

{\i1}Kikuyo.{\i0}

Show me your face one last time.

...Aah.

(Eh.)

I have no regrets.

Sasamaru: (What...was that...)

Sasamaru: (It was...)

Sasamaru: ...

Hey, Hiyo.

There is something I have always been pondering.

The words "Four Noble Ones" that you spoke that day.

Why are you the "chrysanthemum"?

I understand why Araragi is the "orchid."
I also understand why Harutsuge is the "plum blossom."
And the reason you called me the "bamboo."

But why are you the "chrysanthemum"?

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Hi...yo?

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Ho...ney?

Hiyo's face, curiously looking up at me, really overlaps.

{\i1}Is that why?{\i0}

Is that why you...?

Sasamaru: ...

Words aren't coming out.

Suu Sasamaru has to learn from Kumigami Hiyo.

Lacking in his life studies, Suu Sasamaru has to learn with Kumigami Hiyo as a model, learn from her thoughtfulness and skillful consideration.

Even now, when I have finally realized this is her good will toward me, this feeling hasn't changed.

For she is Kumigami Hiyo, the one I respect more than anyone in this world and the one I love the most.

But...

If there's one more invisible reason inside it...

It isn't covered, but I'm still unable to see it.
If there's a "transparent reason"...

Sasamaru: (Previous...life?)

{\i1}Such a thing is...?{\i0}

Is such a thing the {\i1}reason for her to be so?{\i0}

Aah.

Aaaaahhh.

What a...
thing.

We were connected.

We were always connected.
Since very long ago.

Hiyo: Welcome to the Yumemidori Academy.

Hiyo: Because you're a Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself.

Hiyo: Honey, I like your name very much.

Hiyo: ...this is all my fault.

Hiyo: I...love you...ho...ney...

There were days when I lived for her.

There were days when I lived and died for her.

Sasamaru: Urgh!

I wipe the overflowing tears with the sleeve.

I'm happy.

It might be strange to think like this, but...

I'm so happy that the trembling isn't stopping.

After realizing it, I'm about to be crushed by her love. I'm always being reminded that I won't reach, even after stretching and stretching myself.

No matter how pathetic I am, no matter how worthless I am, she envelops all these aspects of mine.

But there were...

There were days when I could live for her.

Sasamaru: (But what about Hiyo?)

How does she feel about this?

Did she see this too?

Just like me, did she also see those days?

Sasamaru: (Then, how has she taken it?)

She didn't know about this long ago.

Hiyo compared herself to the "chrysanthemum" because of her name, just like Araragi and Harutsuge.

Because she heard about the origin of her name from her father.

If she found out, it should be after she came to this school.

Since when has Hiyo seen the memories of that distant, abrupt past?

Sasamaru: (Wait a minute.)

Thinking about it, when did I start seeing those visions?

It was the night before the Ayanashisai was held.

When our project's completion was close at hand.

If this "illness" really was created because we brought the autumn to this school...

Sasamaru: (Did I start seeing my past because our project was close to completion?)

If this is the "key" that opened the door to my memories...

And also, there is the fact that Hiyo protected me with "it's my fault."

Then, she too saw the same scenery as me...
but from the point of view of Kikuyo. And she noticed that "the cause is the fact we brought the autumn"? Kikuyo, which can also be read as Hiyo. And the 'Kiku' in 'Kikuyo' means chrysanthemum.

Sasamaru: ...

Everything makes sense like this.

There's no doubt.
She too saw it.

And she learned...

..."the reason for the autumn to cause the illness," that I still don't understand.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Honey?

No, now is not the time to investigate the cause.

If Hiyo has seen that scenery...
If she noticed that it was her own self and accepted this truth...

...I should first learn what she thinks about it.

Now, at this moment, I am not facing the "illness"...

...but "Kumigami Hiyo."

Sasamaru: Kikuyo.

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: ...

I read this name wrong on purpose.

These are words that only show up if one knows that scenery. This should be a code that only we know.

Hiyo: Ho...ney.

Guessing this, Hiyo opens her eyes wide.

I knew it.
So, that's how it is.

Sasamaru: ...I'm happy.

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: We were always together when we were children. But I'm happy to know I had another connection with you.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: This is so strange. To believe in a thing that you can't tell if it's a dream or not...others might think it's strange.

Sasamaru: Curiously, I believed...it all really happened.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I was surprised, but...really, I'm happy.

These are my honest and truthful feelings.

Sasamaru: And you, Hiyo? What did you think? How did you take it?

Sasamaru: I want to know your honest feelings.

Hiyo: I...

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Hiyo: I was filled with guilt.

Sasamaru: ...Guilt?

Hiyo: Yes. Without knowing how you felt, I simply tried to please you.

Hiyo: Accepting the happiness of being your wife, I was simply trampling on it.

Hiyo: And then, you passed away.

Hiyo: I'm sorry.

Hiyo places her head on the floor.

Sasamaru: Wha...you don't have to apologize for that.

Hiyo: No. {\i1}Hiyo{\i0} should apologize.

Sasamaru: But...

Hiyo: I'm sorry.

Hiyo lowers her head once more, but now deeper.

Hiyo: I...now and in the past, I have done nothing but troubled you.

Hiyo: Clinging to your kindness, I was always enveloped by your warmth, unable to repay you.

Sasamaru: You're wrong!

Sasamaru: That's my line. In the...previous life, too. Because I loved you...because I wanted you to be with me...

Sasamaru: Because your existence was necessary for me, I did that.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

I kneel and lower my head.

And I make my head much, much, much, much lower than Hiyo's.

Sasamaru: Please let me accept the miracle of being able to meet you again.

Sasamaru: Please let me think that there is a meaning in being here with you like this.

Sasamaru: With all this, please.

Sasamaru: Please let me, Sasamaru, love you.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: I beg you.

I deeply, deeply lower my head.

Hiyo: I refuse.

Sasamaru: ...

So, this is Hiyo's answer.

Hiyo: Honey.

Again, Hiyo lowers her head.
As much as me.

Hiyo: Please, let me savor "together" the miracle of being able to meet you again.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Hiyo: Please let me think that the meaning of being your wife is connected to being here now.

Hiyo: To make the fact we were "husband and wife" melt into my feelings for you and into your feelings for me.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Please.

A while passes.

We, with our heads lowered toward each other, raise our faces a little.

Almost at the same time, we look at each other.

After awkwardly being shy to each other, we too, at the same time...

The two: Thank you.

...say this to each other.

I finally understand why she didn't talk about Kikuyo.

She wanted to use {\i1}anything but that{\i0} as a reason.

Now, our feelings are as one. It's enough if we think about each other.

Because we love each other in this life.

We craved each other without knowing our past connection.

Hiyo liked me without knowing this.
I too noticed my feelings for her without knowing.

She doesn't want to bring our past relationship into this and use it as a reason.

However, we have accepted the meaning of our past connection and were able to prioritize our present feelings.

That's why Hiyo smiled.

We were able to say "thank you" to each other.

I'm in the futon with Hiyo.

This is the dormitory's usual scenery, but the meaning is now different.

Greatly different.

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

There is a gentle air.

It is different from the gentleness everyone taught me. A bit embarrassing but somewhat proud. It's an indescribable, gentle air.

And inside it, Hiyo says this.

Hiyo: May I confess too?

Sasamaru: Confess what?

I stare in puzzlement.
"What is this about?"

Hiyo: I was always scared of some words.

Sasamaru: Scared of...some words?

Hiyo: Yes. But I'm no longer scared of them.

Sasamaru: Why?

Hiyo: Because I...already...

Saying this, Hiyo makes a face of happiness from the bottom of her heart and holds my hand.

After I hold her hand back, her words stop.

In their place, I hear a calm sleeping breath.

Sasamaru: (So, she fell asleep.)

I wonder what she was about to say.

I'm sure it's words related to that "playing house."

What remained after we revealed everything to each other.

Sasamaru: (The "playing house" that continued all this time.)

Let's stop.
Let's stop thinking about it.

There's no need to hide it anymore. I'm sure Hiyo will talk about it some other time.

We faced each other with our bare bodies and hearts. I should simply wait for when Hiyo feels like talking about it.

Sasamaru: (That's all there is.)

I'm sure it will have become a funny story by then.

I have gotten used to enduring this pain.

I'm inside this pain that makes me go crazy, but my feelings are surprisingly calm.

But I'm sure my body is screaming.

My senses are numb. I can't feel anything anymore, but perhaps I won't wake up again.

Together with Hiyo like this...

Sasamaru: (I'll disappear.)

Fear arises for one moment.

In order to drown out this fear, I tightly hold Hiyo's hand once more.

But the sensation isn't there.

No matter how much I search for it, I can't find it.

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

I raise my body and search for the girl that, for me, is my other half.

There she is.

But my other half is...

Sasamaru: Hi...yo...

Why?
Why only Hiyo?

Because she was enduring for a longer time than me?
Because I still can't catch up with her efforts?

But it's strange if I say this.
Even if the illness' progress was slower because we followed the student council manual...

...how could she endure it so much, without not even once losing her composure nor letting out thoughtless words?

More than Harutsuge...more than Araragi...

I know how much those two treasure those around them.

But Hiyo shouldn't be different. I know it's meaningless to decide who's superior at this.

Still, it's strange.

Individual differences?
If this really were an illness, it wouldn't be strange if this existed.

But...

Sasamaru: Hiyo!!

So, only I will remain?

Will I remain until the end?

Is this punishment for me, who kept hurting her?

The name of the girl reflected in my eyes is Kumigami Hiyo.

Attentive to the surroundings' changes more than anyone, good at being considerate, and giving an embracing kindness.

A girl always seeing through me.

Hiyo: Ho...ney...please say..."playing house, over."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Those words...the signal of the end of the playing house...

Sasamaru: W...why are you...saying that now...

"I was always scared of some words."

I get it.
She was scared of "the 'playing house' ending."

Scared of no longer being my wife and not calling me "honey" anymore.

This is the second "playing house" that continued for all this time.

Sasamaru: Ah...aah.

Even in a time like this, she is still thinking of me.

She's carrying out her feelings toward me even at this moment when she will disappear.

Because she will disappear before I do.

As to not let me, the remaining one, sad.
So, you're trying to end the "playing house" you clung to this whole time!?

Hiyo: Please...please say it.

Sasamaru: Idi...ot. You idiot.

Hiyo: Then, I will wake from my dream. I won't let you with that heart-breaking face.

Sasamaru: You idiot! You're still...thinking about...

Hiyo: Please...please, honey!

Hiyo, I will soon follow you.

I will soon follow you.

Why are you doing that, as to not let me grief, for this single moment, here and now?

Why are you doing this!?

Hiyo, you idiot.

You are an idiot!!

You selfish.

This is Hiyo's last selfish request.

The girl who kept enduring was selfish only three times.

This is the ending signal to the continuation of the third "playing house"...
that will never come.

The childish words, "playing house, over."

Sasamaru: Hiyo, I...

Hiyo: Yes, ho...ney.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasamaru: "Pla"..."Playing house"...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: "Ov"...

Hiyo: Yes.

Sasamaru: "Let's continue it...until the day we die."

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: "Let's continue this playing house until we die!!"

Sorry.

I cannot accept your last selfish request.

...And I swore to accept anything.

...And you finally were selfish for once.

I just swore it, and...
I'm sorry.

But I cannot say it.

I'm sorry.
I cannot say it.

Sasamaru: Let's remain as a couple forever.

Hiyo's expression after I say this is...

...a smile.

Sasamaru: Aah.

She vanishes.

Sasamaru: Aaaaaahhhh.

She vanishes.

Sasamaru: Hiyo...Hiyo. Hiyo? Hiyo? Hiyo?

She disappeared.

Sasamaru: Hiyo! Hiyo! Hiyo! Hiyo! Hiyo!

Sasamaru: {\i1}Hi{\i0}yo!!

The cutest girl in the whole world, the girl whom I proposed to...

Sasamaru: AAAAAAaaaAAAaa!!

...vanishes before my eyes.

//subchapter
Choice
November 26 (Thursday)
With You, Here and Now,

"Conviction."

This is now inside my chest.

Yes, I know...

...that {\i1}I won't find the student council room no matter how much I search.{\i0}

What I have conviction about is not "to find the student council room."

What I have conviction about is...

...that {\i1}I will be able to meet Waka-san.{\i0}

This conviction is in my palm.

The baby that my past self held in these hands.

That baby who was about to spill from these hands...

That "devil child" is...
the cause of this "illness."

I haven't cleared everything up.

Why is that child here?

And also, why is that child doing such a thing?

Sasamaru: ...

Thinking won't make the answer show up.

I haven't remembered it.

What I remembered are only the events surrounding my past self.

I haven't remembered all the events leading up to now.
In the first place...

{\i1}Even if I remembered everything, I won't remember all the events from then until now.{\i0}

I'm not talking about, "the era has passed, of course I won't remember."

Because I know it.

That husband is myself.
That's why I know.

The continuation of the last dream I saw.
I already know the events "of my own self."

Sasamaru: I'll go meet that child.

That baby is in this school.

And I already know who the child is.

So, even if the baby's father were my past self...

...he shouldn't be related to what is happening here and now.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

You are my wife.

And my beloved in this world.

But {\i1}she didn't become my beloved because she was my wife.{\i0}

Even if this were a start...

...we ourselves also had our start.

Even if this were rooted in something we weren't aware of...

...we ourselves grew this root.

Otherwise, I would be denying your present feelings.

So, I will go.

I will go see the child, not as the "husband" nor as the "father," but as Suu Sasamaru.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Resolving myself, I call the name of my dearest one in the whole world.

Sasamaru: I will save you.

The girls have vanished.

{\i1}But they haven't died.{\i0}

I have conviction about this.

Sasamaru: Araragi. Harutsuge. And everyone of the school.

Sasamaru: Wait for me.

Well, let's go, Suu Sasamaru.

It's my responsibility as the last one remaining in the school.

Waka: "I arrived."

Waka: This is the face you're making.

Sasamaru: Do I look so?

Waka: Yes. You're making a face of "I finally arrived at the truth."

Sasamaru: Then, you guessed it wrong. Look closer and surmise the other's feelings before speaking.

Sasamaru: I didn't arrive at the "truth." Waka-san. I arrived at "you."

For one moment, a warped "interval" appears here.

Waka: Let me rephrase it.

Waka: {\i1}You now have a great face,{\i0} Suu Sasamaru.

Sasamaru: Well, thank you.

Let's start, then.

There are no more students in the school.

Not even a single staff member left.

I am the last person.

...Excluding the girl before me.

Then, I will carry out my responsibility as the last person remaining.

So...
let's start.

Sasamaru: Let me say this first. I didn't come to blame you.

Waka: Though, blaming should be easier?

Sasamaru: ...Yeah...

I "consent"...
to these words.

Sasamaru: So, that's how it is, {\i1}student council president.{\i0}

Waka: Is that a leading question?

Sasamaru: No. What I said is true. I didn't come to blame you.

Waka: Why?

Sasamaru: For you, it's a worthless reason. I just don't want to blame anyone anymore.

Waka: Of course.

The student council president replies, as if wanting to say it's not 'worthless' but 'none of my business.'

Sasamaru: Because it would mean that I lost to the "illness."

Waka: ...

There are no deep feelings in these words.

Her unchanging eyes are glaring, as if they were something out of this world and overlooking this present world.

Waka: Why do you think it is me?

Sasamaru: Hey.

At this late, it doesn't matter "why" or "how come."

I'm at my limit in maintaining my creaking body.

Sasamaru: Is there any meaning in that question?

I cannot waste...
not even one second, not even one millisecond, not even a fraction of it.

For I clearly know what I have to do.

Waka: Then, only one person.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: What if I said...I will save only one person?

Sasamaru: ...What do you mean?

Waka: Exactly that. And who will you choose?

Sasamaru: Stop screwing around!

Waka: I am not screwing around. Then, let me rephrase it. "I can save only one person."

Sasamaru: What a...

Waka: I have the "medicine." A miraculous medicine that immediately cures the "illness" spreading in the school.

Waka: But I only have one. How about it?

//choice
Friends.
Myself.

//1st choice

Sasamaru: I don't care about myself. I beg you. Please...save everyone.

Waka: Who is that "everyone"?

I bite my lips.

What crawls up from my throat is, without any doubt, my true feelings.

Sasamaru: Everyone from the red team...the "Four Noble Ones."

Waka: You say you don't care about the other students and teachers?

After her question, the taste of blood oozes from the canines piercing my lips.

Sasamaru: I do care...but if I can only choose "someone," I will choose the girls.

Waka: "The girls," huh. I believe I said "only one person."

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: I will ask again. Among the "girls," who will you choose?

Sasamaru: Well...

Not one moment of pause.

Sasamaru: ...I can't choose.

Waka: Are you telling me to save all the "girls" you speak of?

Sasamaru: I beg you.

Waka: How unsightly. I said, "choose." And, to you, "only one person."

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: I will ask once more. Who will you choose?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: You can't choose? So, you're unable to affirm that big sis is the priority among your very dear friends?

Waka: You can't decide to protect big sis even if you have to abandon your other friends?

Sasamaru: I...I can't compare that!!

Waka: You are a man who can risk his life for Yumeno Araragi.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Waka: You are a man who can risk his life for Kashi Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: You are a man who can risk his life for Kumigami Hiyo.

Sasamaru: ...And what about it?

Waka: {\i1}That's why{\i0} I'm asking. If you have to choose one, who will it be?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Well, let me hear your answer. What on earth {\i1}will you do{\i0}?

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Wasn't Hiyo someone important to you?

Waka: She is important. But {\i1}that's exactly why there are no exceptions.{\i0}

Sasamaru: I have no idea what you mean.

Waka: You do not have to understand. It just means that I "know it."

Sasamaru: Know what?

Waka: You do not need to know. Well...what will you do?

Sasamaru: ...Why are you granting me a chance?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Weren't you hating me?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Hey.

For some reason, at this moment...

Waka: ......Hurry.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: Choose.

...her irritation bursts.

//2nd choice

Sasamaru: Myself.

Waka: What a predictable choice. I'm even impressed. Yes, that's how you should be.

Sasamaru: Now, I'm the only one remaining.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: But my body won't last long.

Sasamaru: So, a chance to save everyone will show up if I'm saved.

Waka: Of course, so, you're thinking positively. Wishful thinking. So, you'll cling to such a possibility.

Sasamaru: I will cling to anything I can.

Sasamaru: For I haven't given up on anything.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Well?

Waka: Fine. You will remain all alone...and I will watch over what you will do.

Sasamaru: Prepare yourself. Whatever happens, I will not give up.

Sasamaru: No matter how long it takes, I will save everyone. Prepare yourself.

Waka: Yes, those eyes.

Waka: Those eyes are the truth of this world.

Sasamaru: ...?

Waka: Of this world which "nothing can be done." Hah hah, hahaha! Hahahahahahaha!

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Then, struggle, writhe. And arrive eventually at the truth of this world.

...I do not have many words to talk about the days after that.

The illness that {\i1}soaked through{\i0} the real form of the "school,"
which became a relief sculpture.

What we were calling illness is...

...encroaching, permeating, invading.

The school became the lesion itself.
This world's lesion itself.

In this world excluding "her," I'm living all alone without being encroached by the illness...

...as the one who chose "myself" that day and swore to stop her.

There are no graves for everyone.

Because I swore "to not give up."

And today too, I'm still living.

In my chest, I stimulate the memories with everyone in order to not lose heart.

While searching for what I can do for the sake of everyone...

...I'll keep living.

//choice end

//choice
Choose.
I cannot choose.

//1st choice

"Choose."
"Choose only one person."
"I must choose only one person."

Sasamaru: Save...Hiyo.

Waka: Let me ask. Why big sis?

Sasamaru: Only one person...if I have to choose one person from this world, I will choose her.

Sasamaru: Either a person to save, or a person to rescue, or a person to love, I will choose her.

Waka: Sure.

She is somewhat consenting to this.

Because she is our...

Waka: So, this time you will become the sacrifice.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: Am I right? Big sis has always devoted herself to you. You might not have noticed, but she was doing this since long, long ago. Pinning down her feelings and sacrificing herself.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Waka: So, this time you will become the sacrifice?

Sasamaru: ...

Sacrifice.

After she thrusts this word at me, I'm taken aback.

Waka: What will you do? You can still change your choice. You can choose "yourself," you know?

"If I can save her by becoming a scapegoat..."

There's no need to think.

Yes, there's no need to think.

...This is what I want to say.

Sasamaru: So, this decision is wrong.

Waka: Valuing your life now?

Sasamaru: Yeah, I am.

Waka: Yes. Of course. But of course.

Sasamaru: She wished to be together with me.

My past self.
My self who lived for Hiyo.

I am so indebted to Hiyo that I can't repay it even if I take my whole life. Although it's in the past, I'm happy that I spent days living for her.

I am honestly happy.

"Dying after all that," I must have been satisfied.

Running about to solve her troubles, I even offered a prayer to the devil.
Feeling responsibility for our dear child, I kept being tormented by those nightmares.

Still, my former self must have been satisfied.
I loved her with my whole body and soul, and passed away.

But how about the feelings of Hiyo, who was left behind?

If my sacrifice can save Hiyo, of course I will choose this.

But I already know.
I painfully know the feelings of those left behind.

Despite standing here now, despite clinging to a feeble hope and facing Waka-san...

...I'm about to be crushed by this feeling of loss.

So, I made Hiyo feel like this?

In a world I existed no more, Hiyo, all alone...

...kept lamenting.
...kept crying.
Is this punishment toward the loved ones?

Sasamaru: I do not mind if you think this is excessive self-consciousness. I no longer want to make her cry.

I would rather disappear than do this.

Waka: Is it, really?

Sasamaru: What?

Waka: Big sis was alone all this time. No, big sis' "feelings" were alone all this time.

Waka: With the person she cared for not turning back nor noticing her, she received the same treatment as the "friends" around him.

Waka: You treasured your "friends." No doubt that they are "special." But she couldn't become one among the specials, "the only one special." But big sis could only deceive her own heart.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: But {\i1}if you become big sis' scapegoat{\i0}, she can become the "only one special." If you become a scapegoat for none other than big sis...

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Big sis will be able to monopolize you for the first time.

Sasamaru: Stop screwing with me!

I shout.

Sasamaru: Like hell she wishes for that!!

Waka: You think she doesn't wish for it? That's how a man would think.

Sasamaru: Wha...

Waka: Well, fine. And? Will you choose? Or not?

"Choose."
"Choose only one person."
"I must choose only one person."

The one I yearn for is Kumigami Hiyo.
The one I love is Kumigami Hiyo.
But the ones I want to save are the "girls."

Even if she says I'm selfish, these are my real feelings.

But I really want to save everyone in the school.

Even if she says I'm arrogant or cruel, these are my real feelings.

The truth is...
"she" too.

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

What...was that just now?

Waka: Which one?

...Waka-san.

Why are you making that face?

Waka: What's wrong?

"What's wrong?" is my line.

Why are you {\i1}about to cry at any moment now?{\i0}

Sasamaru: Wait.

Waka: Hmm?

I want to save...

The one I want to save is...

Sasamaru: It's only one person, right?

Waka: Stop asking the same question.

Sasamaru: Got it. Then, there's someone I want you to save.

Waka: It's not big sis?

Sasamaru: It's you.

Waka: What?

Sasamaru: It's you, Waka-san.

Waka: What...are you saying?

Sasamaru: I'm saying that I want to save you, who's asking me that with a face about to cry.

The interval that appears here...
is very long.

Waka: What are you saying!?

Sasamaru: Because I can't. I cannot leave Hiyo all alone.

Sasamaru: So...I at least want to stop the tears of the girl about to cry in front of me.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: It's not that, is it?

Waka: Wh...what?

Sasamaru: This isn't an "illness," is it?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: You said it was an illness because I said so on that day at the broadcasting room. Because I "recognized it as that." Am I right?

Sasamaru: This is actually...

After speaking, I close my mouth.

There's no meaning in telling it now.

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-san.

This isn't what I want to ask.
This isn't what I want to say.

Many things happened, but what I want to know, exactly because many things happened, is...

Sasamaru: I wonder what "kindness" really is.

I think it's only this.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: ...Waka-san?

She is with both her eyes wide open.

Waka: Uh, aah...

"Fear."
No.

"Despair."
No.

It's not myself who is reflected in her eyes.

What is reflected is the "question" itself that I spoke now.

Sasamaru: What...?

"What" on earth did she encounter?

Waka: AAAAAAAAHHHHH!!

//2nd choice

Sasamaru: I like Hiyo.

Waka: Hmm, then, is it big sis?

Sasamaru: But when asked, "who do you want to save?" I cannot answer.

Sasamaru: I want to save them all. The girls saved me. It was them who drove away that darkness.

Sasamaru: I cannot choose...just one.

Waka: Talk about selfish.

Sasamaru: I beg you. I don't care what happens to me.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: I beg you!!

Waka: I refuse.

Sasamaru: Waka-san!!

Waka: That is not the answer.

Sasamaru: The answer?

Sasamaru: Nnnggghh!!

At this moment, a bitter pain assaults me.

It is a shock incomparable to the ones so far.

{\i1}To be assaulted by an unbearable pain when we are always in pain means...{\i0}

It means...

Sasamaru: (I'm at my...limit.)

Waka: I guess time's over.

Sasamaru: Waka...san!

...I couldn't choose.

For the life of me, I couldn't choose.

But I'll say this.

I'll hold my head high and say this.

Sasamaru: Aah...what a nice weather.

//choice end

//Chapter 2 end

With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

//Chapter 3 start

//text on screen
Then...
let's talk about an unnecessary story.

//text on screen
This story is already complete.

//text on screen
{\i1}What had to be told{\i0} has already been told.

//text on screen
So, this is...

//text on screen
...nothing more than unnecessary.

//subchapter
The Scenery Appearing When I Close My Eyes
October 27 (Tuesday)
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

Sasamaru: Oops?

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. Err...

Yes, it was...

Sasamaru: It's "why I chose this as the project for the Ayanashisai," right?

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: H-huh? It's not?

I feel that this was the conversation we were having, but...
was it?

...Huh?

{\i1}Was this conversation at this place?{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

{\i1}...This place?{\i0}

Sasamaru: Sorry. What were we talking about?

Come to think of it, only Hiyo is here.

I had this conversation in front of everyone and...

Hiyo: No, we were talking about the purpose of the project's creation. I'm sorry, my mistake.

Sasamaru: Ah.

I'm relieved.
The topic was matching.

I calm myself after looking at Hiyo's {\i1}usual smile.{\i0}

Hiyo: But, if possible, may we talk about it after everyone returns? And I was the one who brought up the topic. I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: Ah, well...you're right. I should talk about it with everyone.

Hiyo brought up...huh? Wasn't Harutsuge who brought it up?

First, Hiyo wouldn't jump the gun and ask what everyone was avoiding asking. It's more like us if Harutsuge, representing everyone, asked at the "perfect time."

...Did Hiyo simply play along with me?

Hiyo: But honey, the project you suggested is almost complete, isn't it?

Sasamaru: Y...yeah.

Yes, exactly.
Today is the night before the Ayanashisai.

The "production," when we secluded ourselves at the water mill and kept making red leaves, has ended, and the "exhibition," when we decorated the withered trees with red leaves, has ended too. All that's left is to leave it here.

After this work is done, the project with the school as the stage...
the "Morning Color" will finally be completed.

Then, we only have to wait for tomorrow.

Yes, no doubt about it.
No problem.

Because...

Sasamaru: They will recognize our victory tomorrow. We have to do our best until the end in order to not be rude to everyone.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo is looking at me with a slightly surprised face.

As if she couldn't hide her surprise at what I just said—words I would never say.

Sasamaru: (Did I say something...funny?)

...Ah.

Sasamaru: Well, I thought that I should participate with the enthusiasm of "we will win without fail."

Hiyo: That's the spirit, honey.

Hiyo makes a clenched fist and takes a vigorous pose.

Hiyo: It was you who proposed it. I'm sure our red team will win.

Sasamaru: Y-yeah, of course.

What...am I saying?

Why did I think that we will win {\i1}for sure?{\i0}

I know about the high pride of the school's students.

It's important to be eager to win, but to think that "of course we will win" even a little bit is...
very arrogant.
Shame on yourself.

Sasamaru: ...

But, for some reason, I can affirm it.

"The one who will win is our red team."

Because this is simply {\i1}tracing events already fixed.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (What...am I thinking?)

What the heck is with me?

I'm weird.
And for a while now.

Hiyo: ...

Hiyo: Red leaves has...a story called "Momiji Legend," right?

Sasamaru: Y...yeah.

Perhaps worried about myself, who is keeping silent, Hiyo mentions this story.

Oh, no. I made her be considerate again.

Sasamaru: Err...it's a theme that often appears in noh theater and kabuki, right?

Although, it is just right for a change of mood.

I'll gladly hop on Hiyo's kindliness.

Hiyo: Yes. It's the legend of a demoness told at Shinshu's Togakushi.

The era is halfway through the Heian period.

In a certain place, there was a woman named Momiji.

A beauty beyond description.

A rare femme fatale. So beautiful, so beautiful, that everyone couldn't take their eyes off her.

For this reason, a certain politician fell in love with her, and they had a child. However...

Its nature was evil.

Its karma was wicked.

The demoness' name was...
Momiji.

Splendor,
power,
fame,
fortune.

Desireth.

Desireth.

Simply gathering and gathering. And spitting out, 'not enough, not enough.'

Greedily desireth.

When he came to, it was too late.

It was after his legal wife malignantly showed contempt that he realized there was a devil hiding in his bosom.

All medicines and nursing were to no avail.

The unrecoverable illness brought in death.

Desireth.

Desireth.

Desireth that throne.

A high priest saw that this karma was a curse.

The source of the hex...
Momiji.

Hah hah.

Hah hah hah hah hah.

Ahahahahahahaha.

Finally exiled from the capital.

Shinshu's Togakushi.

Momiji drifting to the lands of Minase.

Desireth.

Desireth.

Even on different lands, a demon is a demon.

Not to mention a cunning and obscure devil hiding its nature with its beautiful face.

Easily deceiving the innocent people.

She was praised as a living god by the people of the land of Minase.

Desireth.

Desireth.

Every night, reckless acts. Every night.

From the faction led by her, praises of the robbery of the neighboring villages.

Desireth.

Desireth.

Desireth again to return to the capital.

The cornerstone of this cruelty and violence.

Thus, thou art the Tokakushi's demoness.

The Imperial Court finally sent the greatest hero of the time.

Desireth.

Desireth.

"So, you desire my head."

"So, you will offer the devil's head with that blunt thing."

Hah, hah, hah, hah, hah.

A set-up trick.

The executed sorcery forces even the hero into a hard struggle. However...

Offering a prayer to the Gods.

He was awarded a purification sword.

"At last, the hero took the devil's head."

And thus, the demon disappeared from the lands of Minase.

It is said it became the land of "Kinasa," meaning a village without demons.

Hiyo: ...And this is the summary of the Momiji Legend.

Sasamaru: It's interesting that the village without demons became "Kinasa" because the demon disappeared.

Hiyo: Now, it is called by the name of Kinasa district in Nagano prefecture.

Sasamaru: Yeah, Shinshu is an alias of the Shinano province. And now, it is Nagano prefecture...wait, that name still exists?

Hiyo: Yes. Maybe it wasn't necessarily a lie that she was praised as a living god on those lands.

Sasamaru: So, to the locals, it's a deep-rooted creed.

While speaking, I glimpse at Hiyo's face.

Hiyo: ?

Sasamaru: No, I thought you would say, "they know, but if they believe it or not is another story."

Hiyo: A legend is a legend.

This is a phrasing truly typical of Hiyo.

Hiyo: Actually, there is a document that said Kinasa was originally written as "Kinasa" without the demon character. Minase would have nothing to do with demons like this.

Sasamaru: In short, it was appended later.

Hiyo: Yes. I believe that legends have meaning exactly because they're accepted as legends.

How do I say...she's a girl denying faith head-on.

"It's good manners to respect an old story, but to use this as reason to believe it is simply blindness" or something.

Sasamaru: But...did that Momiji appear out of nowhere?

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Well, it feels that story started with "based on demoness Momiji."

Hiyo: The legend says that 'Momiji's father prayed.'

Sasamaru: Prayed?

Hiyo: Yes. It said that the child was born after the couple who couldn't have a child prayed to the sixth heaven's devil king.

Sasamaru: Sixth heaven's devil king...is it Oda Nobunaga?

Hiyo: That also was appended later. Nobunaga's collection of merits and offenses were compared as such because they were extremely uncanny. Besides, he called himself that.

So, that's what happened. I'm a bit shocked.

He might have said, "Hey, ape. From today on, you shall call me the sixth heaven's devil king. The sixth heaven's devil king. It sounds cooler if you extend the 'kiiiing' part."

Though, the Nobunaga inside my head is a bit too frank.

Hiyo: Besides, {\i1}being compared as such{\i0} means...

Sasamaru: Means there's an origin.

Hiyo: Yes.

The favorite child who eliminated the Imperial Court by force, set fire to Mt. Hiei, and entirely destroyed the existing customs.
The demon of revolution and destruction.

Overturning the common sense of the people of those days, Nobunaga, a devil king enough to be seen as such...
{\i1}by force of habit.{\i0}

Sasamaru: The sixth heaven...was it from Buddhism?

And I too know some odd topics.

Hiyo: Yes. The world view of Buddhism can be divided into three great sections. And one of these is the 'Takeji Zaiten' in the desire realm.

And Hiyo, who can keep up with it, is even more amazing.

I just have biased knowledge, but Hiyo can keep up with whatever topic I start. This means she is way more knowledgeable than the likes of me.

Sasamaru: Was it the top-ranking of the desire world?

Hiyo: Yes. It's the habitat of Hajun.

Hajun is, in other words, a demon.

It's a demon who obstructs Buddhist practices, also called Tenma, Tenjima, or simply Takeji Zaiten.
And may also be called the sixth heaven's devil king.

Sasamaru: So, Momiji was born from a prayer offered to this sixth heaven's devil king.

It's really the devil's child.

"Its nature is evil, its karma is wicked."

Sasamaru: Then, I can understand why she was praised as a god.

Hiyo: Do you mean an "evil god"?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Nice one, Hiyo.

Sasamaru: People long ago worshiped anything frightening or threatening as a god in order to avoid calamities. The phrase "praised as a god" is prone to be misunderstood.

Hiyo: Certainly, it's reasonable to think it was due to fear.

Sasamaru: Yeah. When you combine fear with prayer, it becomes a solid creed.

Hiyo: And, honey. I am done here.

Sasamaru: Yeah, me too.

We look at each other and smile.

And thus, the work we are in charge of comes to an end.

Harutsuge: We finished here, Sasamaru-kun.

Araragi: I finished too.

Then, the girls in charge of a different place finish their work and join with us.

Harutsuge: Well, Sasamaru-kun. It's about time, isn't it?

Harutsuge: The "project" you proposed in the classroom that day is now completed. So, I want you to tell me.

Harutsuge: Why did you choose this project?

They have gathered. I reveal it to them.

My memories of that day.

That day when we were called the "Four Noble Ones."
That day when I couldn't hold back the tears.

Those days are somewhat fragmented and missing.

But still, they're memories filled with a brilliance that will never fade away.

A pure white canvas.

Now, it is simply pure white.

For us, "pure white" means the start.

On those days, just as I wished to stand on the starting point by painting over the darkness with white.

A "pure white canvas" and a "picture in my mind."

If we have these two, we are invincible.

All that's left is to paint to our heart's content.

So, I'm about to draw the first line on this canvas...

...and I stop my hand.

Sasamaru: (I must not start it yet.)

Because I have a project I must now face.

A project to draw the picture called "autumn" on the canvas that is this school.

In the end, if I leave it to my imagination and covet everything, it won't be beneficial at all.

So, I must not start it yet.

Not yet.

However, the almost impatient feeling of "I must start it" is pushing my back.

//subchapter
My Promise With You
October 28 (Wednesday)
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

The morning of the Ayanashisai's very day.

Waka-san comes and asks...

Waka: Is this a completed project?

...this.

It appears it's a rule to ask this every year.

Summing up, it's a self-assessment for the submitting party.

If we say "it's completed," then that's it.

Only the creator knows if the project is completed or not, and on what basis it is completed.

{\i1}That's why...{\i0}

That's why I can puff up my chest...

Sasamaru: Yes.

...and answer this.

Waka: Good.

This simple reply makes my body shiver.

"Something natural."

The confidence to naturally accomplish the natural event of "completing a project within the determined time."

I can puff up my chest.

Because, despite being "something natural," this is the largest obstacle every creator must face while agonizing and fighting.

{\i1}That's why...{\i0}

That's why our relationship is so.

The one asking and the one asked.
And I, who answered while puffing my chest, have splendidly accomplished my role.

I just have to return to my friends.

To my friends, to share the happiness of naturally accomplishing something natural.

Despite this, I...

...I grab the hand of Waka-san, who is about to leave after similarly finishing her role.

Waka: What are you doing?

Sasamaru: Ah.

The one most surprised at my action is myself.

Despite this, for some reason...

...I'm not releasing her hand, I'm actually grasping it even stronger. And I blurt out this.

Sasamaru: ...May we talk for a bit?

Waka: What did you say?

Sasamaru: You can't?

Waka: ...

After looking at me with a straight face—though it hasn't changed much—Waka-san shakes off my hand.

Waka: Me and {\i1}you?{\i0}

Bluntly displeased, she glares at me.

Sasamaru: Yes. You and me.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: I beg you.

Waka: Curious things really do happen.

Curious? That's not true.

Just the other day, we were chatting, just the two of us.

Sasamaru: (...{\i1}Just the other day?{\i0})

When was that?

Yesterday...
was when we from the red team did the finishing touches to the project.

Two days ago...

Two days ag...
Wait, was yesterday the last day to prepare for the Ayanashisai?

Huh?
Huh?

Wasn't this a long time ago?

Sasamaru: (What am I saying?)

What's wrong with me?
I've been like this since yesterday.

Today is the day of the Ayanashisai.
The long-awaited day.

Someone said that "today" itself has value because it only happens once.
Although, this phrase is so common that I can't remember who it was.

But like hell it will happen two or three times.

This is...the so-called déjà vu.

Waka: What's wrong?

Waka-san is dubiously looking at me.

Waka: Making a curious face by yourself, agreeing by yourself...you were already disgusting, but now you're really beyond help.

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. Well...do you have a moment?

Then, we go elsewhere.

Aah, Waka-san's abusive language?
There's not much point in talking about it this late.

Waka: And...what?

Sasamaru: Well...

When she asks me "what?" I too want to ask myself "what?"

I wonder why on earth I called out to her.

Waka: I'll say this. The one big sis loves the most is myself.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Hmpf. Even with that much composure, big sis will abandon you any moment no...

Sasamaru: ...Do you really like Hiyo?

Waka: What did you say?

Sasamaru: Then, why did you do that...

What is "that"?

The next moment, the picture in my mind vanishes.

Waka: What do you mean when you say "that"?

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. Never mind.

Waka: Hmmm?

Sasamaru: Well, anyway...ah, that's right. I'll go buy some drinks.

What on earth am I doing?
Without understanding what I want to do, I leave the place for now.

Sasamaru: (Really...what am I doing?)

In front of the vending machine, I talk to myself.

Sasamaru: (Waka-san should want a milk tea.)

I insert the coins and press the milk tea button.

And after looking at the goods while thinking about what I should drink...

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

The milk tea button has the "sold-out" lamp.

I guess this is the last can.
I got lucky.

Waka: Hey, hurry up.

After turning around to the voice, Waka-san has come to behind me before I noticed.

Waka: It's almost time for the milk-chi restock. I want to buy it too.

Sasamaru: Ah, I've already bought yo...

Waka: Aah.

After startling me with a sudden loud voice, Waka-san makes an expression as if it was the end of the world.

Waka: Ah, aah...

Her fingertips are trembling.
She's pointing to behind me.

Her actions and expression are as though there was an unknown monster behind me, exactly like in a horror movie.

Sasamaru: (Hmm?)

I turn around, but there's no one there.

Although, there shouldn't occur the 'behind you' phenomenon, where it goes to my front the moment I turn over, and to behind me the moment I turn back.

Waka: N-no...way...

However, Waka-san still has her 'end of the world' expression.

After once more following the place she points to with my eyes...

Sasamaru: Ah.

...there's the "sold-out" lamp of the vending machine.

Waka: No...way...

Sasamaru: I've already bought yours, Waka-san. I guess it was the last can.

Again, I hold out the milk tea that came out of the vending machine.

But it's as if I'm invisible to her.

Waka: It's all...over.

This is like a test-taker who failed their school of choice and is lost in the grief of seeing that all their efforts so far were in vain.

Waka: And I was betting everything on the milk-chi I would drink on this day, at this time, at this timing...

What bet is that?
Wait, it was a prayer?

Sasamaru: No, wait. This one is yours.

I hold out the milk tea in front of her, who is hanging her head.

Waka: Eh.

She opens her eyes wide.
As if something unbelievable was before her eyes.

Waka: It is...mine?

Her head trembles as if saying, 'no, no.'
Her body draws back.

Waka: W-what...what are you plotting?

Sasamaru: Wait, I've no idea what you mean by plotting. I called you against your will. There's nothing strange in me buying your drink, is there?

Yes, there's nothing strange.

I'm a man whose only date was that little-by-little one with Hiyo, but this is within common sense, isn't it?

Waka: Wait, it is strange. You're an old geezer.

Sasamaru: And I really have no idea what you mean. Here, take it.

Again, Waka-san observes the milk tea thrust before her.

Waka: ...

Ah, crossed eyes.

Sasamaru: Here.

I vigorously extend it.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Here you go.

I extend it even more vigorously.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Whoa!!

I reflexively get surprised at her overreaction.

After tightly grasping the can with her hand, Waka-san...

...pulls it out just like that and takes the milk tea from me.
Or rather, snatches away.

After hurriedly opening the pop tab...

Waka: *chug* *chug* *chug* *chug* *chug*

Sasamaru: (Wow, amazing.)

She chugs all the milk tea.
Or rather, I think this is the first time I see someone chugging an entire milk tea can for no reason.

In both Japanese-style and Western-style, isn't tea something to be drunk slowly because it grants calmness to oneself?

Waka: Pheeew.

And then, the delighted Waka-san...

Waka: It's mine.

...says this while protecting the supposedly empty can, and while being cautious of me.

Sasamaru: No, it's already in your stomach. I can't take it back.

But she doesn't have to chug it all just to protect it.
Does she hate me that much?
And does she like milk tea that much?

If I and a milk tea were drowning in a river, would she, without hesitation, save the milk tea?
Of course she would.
I know that.

Waka: Hmpf. I won't think you're kind just because of this. Don't get cocky.

...Kind?

Feeling that an unexpected word has shown up, I'm taken aback for one moment.

With no words to reply, I'm unable to react. And Waka-san adds this, like a follow-up attack.

Waka: Look, don't get me wrong. You're just a people pleaser.

Sasamaru: A people pleaser?

...Me?

Waka: Yes. The number one word that shows up when you do your best to praise a loser is "people pleaser." That's what I mean. There's no other word.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: But I'll incur the wrath of the gods if I use it with the likes of you. Ptui.

Aah, I'm a bit relieved.
But that phrasing sounds like a certain elder sister. Waka-san, I think you should be careful with ones easily influenced.

Waka: Listen, you are not a "kind" person, you hear?

Waka-san emphasizes.

Or rather...
she's correct. I'm not a person to be called that.

I'm still lacking in just about everything.

Waka: What? Not gonna talk back?

Sasamaru: Well, I don't have an argument to talk back.

Waka: Ngh. Boring.

Huh? Did she want me to talk back?
Waka-san's way of speaking is so unique that I can't tell the conversation's pace.

But, well...

Sasamaru: But yes, "kind" is completely different from "people pleaser."

It has become an unclear topic because she used the likes of me as an example.

While taking to the mouth the green tea I bought for myself, I say, "Yes, it's exactly that."

Waka: Nngh.

Sasamaru: Well...leaving aside the "people pleaser" meaning that you said, originally...wait, this isn't quite right. It's the meaning of "people pleaser" that gives a good impression.

Sasamaru: In other words, it means a "good person." A good person and good-natured have almost the same meaning. But they don't necessarily mean "kind."

Waka: Why do you think so?

Sasamaru: "Why?" To begin with, "to be kind" is different from "pampering," right?

Waka: Nggh.

Sasamaru: These two are very similar, but they're decisively different. "To pamper" is irresponsible. This is an extreme way of saying it, but it's how I see it.

Sasamaru: This might be a bad way of saying, but it means someone pampering someone else based on negative reasons, such as "I don't want to be disliked" or "I'm scared of being ignored."

Sasamaru: This is the same as adults who cannot scold a child when they should scold. It's very "irresponsible." Of course, it isn't "bad." It's just "irresponsible."

Sasamaru: Conversely, "to be kind," and this is very soft just from the impression of the words, doesn't necessarily mean "to pamper." Sometimes being terribly relentless and also strict.

Sasamaru: For example, when one's child does an unthinkable mischief. A parent who scolds with yells or tries to stop by punching is "not kind," right?

Sasamaru: I think this isn't true. These parents are carrying out their responsibility as an adult. They're carrying out the responsibilities of a parent. They can do this because they really think that it's for the sake of the child.

Sasamaru: That is what scolding means. To punch too is an act that brings pain to oneself.

Sasamaru: I think this is what "kindness" means.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: So, "to be kind" is different from "to pamper." They're similar but definitely different.

Sasamaru: "People pleaser" is, how do I say...to smile whatever happens and never get angry. It has an impression of always playing along with the place and the surroundings, so, I think that it's tending toward "to pamper."

Sasamaru: And that's why I think that "kindness" is different from "people pleaser."

Waka: I-is that so?

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. I kinda turned it into an odd topic.

What on earth did I start talking about?

Waka: V...very argumentative.

Sasamaru: Haha, I often get told that. "You're so big-headed."

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Well, this is the ramblings of me, a big-headed lacking in life training. You can ignore it.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Waka: Is that...from experience?

Sasamaru: Yeah, that's right.

Waka: Is that so.

They didn't punch me, but...
they stopped me.

Everyone said that "my polite is weird."

Thinking about their personality, they accepted without pursuing it further.
But they directly said it.

They appropriately "scolded" me.

Sasamaru: Something like that happened long ago. Back then, I didn't understand it, but I thought about it later. "Why did they do that to me?"

Sasamaru: Then...I started thinking that maybe that's what "kindness" is.

So, I must learn from them.

And I'm still studying.

Sasamaru: I'm sure you're a person who knows this, Waka-san.

Waka: Eh?

Sasamaru: Well, to know the difference between these two means you too are a person who knows this.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Right?

Waka: You're really...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Waka: Aren't you indirectly praising yourself?

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah...aah, yeah. So it seems.

But I'm the one who was taught.

I cannot possibly compare myself to my teachers: the girls.

Waka: S-so, you're singing your own praises. There's nothing more boring than an old geezer bragging. And it's long-winded exactly because it's from an old geezer.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

Waka: Did you drag me here to talk about that?

Sasamaru: Ah, I didn't.

Time passed while I was on that weird topic.

Although, I myself don't know well why I stopped Waka-san in the first place.

Waka: If you're done, I'm going back. Jeez.

Really, what on earth did I want to do?

...But Waka-san was strangely agitated.
I wonder what happened.

Araragi: Welcome back, Sasamaru-chan.

Hiyo: Welcome back, honey.

Sasamaru: I'm back.

Harutsuge: And how was it, Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: Yeah, I said it.

We naturally accomplished something natural.

Harutsuge: Good.

With a proud face, Harutsuge looks at me.

Harutsuge: All that's left is to wait for the Ayanashisai to start.

We did what we had to do.
There's no point in panicking.

All that's left is to vigorously stand ready.
As if displaying these feelings with her actions, Harutsuge goes to her seat.

And, as if receiving these feelings, Araragi follows.

Sasamaru: ...

This scenery is exactly the same as when I first arrived at this classroom.

Harutsuge: What's the matter, Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: Ah. I'll "wait for it" too, then.

Harutsuge: Exactly. "Face the desk and wait for it." This is the fighting stance of the students.

Each one of Harutsuge's words reverberates inside my chest.

Harutsuge: Nothing starts until the general takes his seat.

Sasamaru: But the general has already taken it.

Harutsuge: Oh, boy.

Harutsuge does an awkward smile.

Harutsuge: I'll rephrase it, then. We're not assembled unless you take your seat.

Sasamaru: Eh?

For one moment, I fail to understand the meaning of her words, but...
after looking around, I notice Hiyo is standing behind me without moving an inch.

As if saying that "she cannot go to her seat until I go to mine first."

Sasamaru: (Of course.)

Then, I too go to my seat.

As if waiting for it, Hiyo too goes to her seat.

Araragi: And the "Four Noble Ones" have assembled.

Harutsuge: Yeah, an invincible lineup.

Wanting or not, the festival's presence rises.

Sasamaru: So, the Ayanashisai doesn't start first thing in the morning, right?

Hiyo: Yes. The Ayanashisai has no other program other than the project's contest. It is not an open festival, so, there is no need to guide the public.

This school is this school to the bitter end.
And also...

Harutsuge: And the Ayanashisai makes you aware that this school is a gathering place for those aspiring to be artists.

Harutsuge speaks out exactly what I'm thinking.

Araragi: You're right.

Araragi agrees with her.

Divided by colors, each class unite and compete with their respective projects.

This is the Ayanashisai.

Hiyo: It's almost time.

Harutsuge: All right. Then...

Harutsuge stands up and looks at me.

Harutsuge: General, the signal.

Sasamaru: Yeah, I too was waiting for your signal.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, you expressed yourself wrong.

Harutsuge: Hmm...all right, Sasamaru-kun. Say, "let's go."

Sasamaru: And why should I steal your lines?

Harutsuge: We just decided. You'll be the one who will present the red team's project on the stage.

Sasamaru: I'll undertake the role as the one who proposed it, but this is Harutsuge's turn. Otherwise, we'll be sloppy.

Harutsuge: Damn thickheaded king.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan, Sasamaru-chan. In times like these, we'd be so happy if the boy firmly declares it.

Sasamaru: Got it.

She's right. The man has to firmly do it.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge. I know it's embarrassing, but you're the leader everyone recognizes. Say something cool for us now.

All right. This is good. Am I right, Arara...

Araragi: ...

She's making a strange face I've never seen before.

Hiyo: Honey. Harutsuge-san is warning you that "the role of the one in charge has already started," as to not make you nervous on the stage.

Sasamaru: O-okay.

So, that's what it was. I had no idea about her concerns.

Sasamaru: Then...

I clear my throat once.

Sasamaru: Red team! Let's go!!

The three: Yes! Yup! Yeah!

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun sure is something.

Araragi: Well, we really are no match for Hiyo-chan.

We four are walking through the path to the gymnasium.

Araragi: I'm kinda nervous now.

Harutsuge: You're slovenly, Araragi-kun. Just walk brazenly. Brazenly, I say.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan. You're moving the right arm and leg at the same time.

Harutsuge: It's more difficult this way!

Araragi: That's not where you should be brazenly.

Hiyo: He is calm and collected.

Sasamaru: Yeah, thanks to Harutsuge. I'm now focused.

Harutsuge: It's not me. It's thanks to Hiyo-kun.

Sasamaru: ...? Yeah, Hiyo is always supporting me.

Harutsuge: Damn thickheaded.

Araragi: Thickead thickead.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun. That spell is summoning what?

Araragi: N-n-n-no, I'm now nervous for real.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun. I take that it's the men's role to tell a sensible joke and loosen the women's tension.

Sasamaru: Uuhh, what a great duty.

Hiyo: Ah, this reminds me of a certain story. The French physicist Denis Papin, said to be the inventor of the steam engine...

Harutsuge: It's no use, Hiyo-kun. We have to make him do it.

Hiyo: We don't have to force on a day like today.

Harutsuge: It's exactly because "it's a day like today." It's the perfect day to increase the man's value.

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Hi-Hi-Hiyo-chan, you look so relaxed.

Hiyo: I have no special reason to be nervous.

Harutsuge: She's a bigwig. Learn from her, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: As you say.

Hiyo: No, it's not that. I believe.

Sasamaru: Believe?

Hiyo: Yes. The project you proposed and built with everyone from the "Four Noble Ones." There is no reason to feel hesitant.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Harutsuge calmly says this.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru, die already.

Araragi: Hey, hey, Harutsuge-chan. You spoiled everything.

Harutsuge: But...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge-san, this world has something called kotodama, the power of words. It might actually happen if you keep saying it.

Huh?

I think I said these words somewhere before.

Harutsuge: Kotodama, eh.

Sasamaru: Wait, that's not where you should snap at.

Harutsuge: Yeah. I too think kotodama exists.

Sasamaru: And even agreeing? If you believe so, then refrain from speaking.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, what's your reason?

Sasamaru: Wow, the topic is widening.

Harutsuge: I've experienced it. Long ago, I actually observed its effects.

Araragi: Whaaaaaaat!?

Harutsuge: That was...when I was little, unaware of depravity and very interested in erotica.

Hiyo: Not a change from today.

Harutsuge: A distant relative of mine was the president of a certain company.

Araragi: She continued without worries because she jabbed.

Harutsuge: This company enlarged in uncle's generation. He was a respectable individual, but he was known for his shrewdness because of it.

Araragi: Shrewdness?

Hiyo: It's a rough way to express a capable individual. A person talented but rigid, who advances through relentless means.

Araragi: Okay.

Harutsuge: Yes, and not only outside, but also inside. His too-dictatorial attitude often brought about the antipathy of the employees.

Harutsuge: Because the wall of his office was decorated with the words: "If I don't do it, who will!"

Araragi: Woooow...

Sasamaru: Eh, well...summing up that story, he might sound dictatorial, but doesn't he actually mean for "each employee to have such an awareness"?

Sasamaru: Strict regarding the work but warmly watching the long-term growth of everyone.

Harutsuge: Hmm, good one, Sasamaru-kun. It's exactly that.

Harutsuge: Uncle was never the type to pamper others, but he had a very wide vision of things. As Sasamaru-kun said, he appealed to the employees with this attitude.

Hiyo: Nice one, honey.

Harutsuge: However, this didn't get across to the employees. Whether one is a president or not, these feelings are hard to understand unless you know the person's normal behavior.

Harutsuge: "The president thinks we're slaves." It's hard to harbor other perceptions once such an air grows thick inside the company.

Sasamaru: Hmm.

I remember the difference between "kindness" and "people pleaser" from the conversation I had with Waka-san.

Harutsuge: There was a small mistake at that time. The matter itself wasn't that big a mistake, but everything is connected in one's work. There was the possibility that this could affect an important deal regarding the company's luck.

Harutsuge: Then, uncle gathered the chief members at the president's office in order to stimulate the employees.

Sasamaru: Hmm, hmm. And?

Out of nowhere, I'm now attentively listening to her.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsuge?

Harutsuge: I'll tell a side story here. Now, I give the impression of a graceful and "secluded beauty," but I was just a bit of a naughty kid in my childhood.

Sasamaru: Not a change from today, so, don't worry. Or rather, why are you joking to a childhood friend about "in my childhood"?

Harutsuge: Because to joke is my purpose in life!!

Sasamaru: Wait, no need to emphasize that.

Harutsuge: And, I was just a bit naughty. And on the day before uncle called everyone to the president's room, I had gone to the company to play, by coincidence.

Sasamaru: And on such a serious time? Why?

Harutsuge: Well, because I'm so lovelyful.

Sasamaru: A very embarrassing word to say out loud. And it will soon wither away.

Harutsuge: Well, maybe my parents had something to discuss there. My parents had a lot of influence. I think they were requesting something from a relative.

Harutsuge: And I was too young to be left alone at home. They must have taken me along or something.

Sasamaru: Okay.

Harutsuge: And so, I was too young to understand what happened, but I went to my uncle's company.

Sasamaru: Sure, sure.

Harutsuge: They probably were discussing it in a reception room or somewhere else, but it was too difficult for a child like me to understand. Then, I was sensible and left the room in order to not bother them. And, of course, my adventure started.

Sasamaru: I somehow understand the feelings of your parents, unable to leave you alone at home.

Harutsuge: I'll tell you about my great adventure, from chapter one to chapter 69, later. In the last chapter, I finally arrived at the president's office.

Sasamaru: So, it was the prologue so far.

Harutsuge: Then, I rewrote something.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Harutsuge: Well, it was on the spur of the moment. I kinda rewrote it.

Sasamaru: Wait a minute. You cut short so much that I don't understand. What did you rewrite?

Harutsuge: And...back to the story. Uncle gathered the chief members at the president's office in order to stimulate the employees.

Sasamaru: Hey.

Harutsuge: Then, the normally displeased employees saw it. They saw uncle's words decorating the president's office's wall.

Sasamaru: That "If I don't do it, who will!" one?

Harutsuge: No.

Sasamaru: Eh? Then...

Harutsuge: It had been rewritten.

Sasamaru: ...?

Harutsuge: The employees saw it. Decorating the wall...

Harutsuge: The words: "If I don't do it, {\i1}someone{\i0} will!"

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Then, the employees rebelled. That so elegant company declined.

Harutsuge: At that time, I believed. "Kotodama, the power of words, exists." A single word had moved the human spirit.

Harutsuge: This is the reason I believe in kotodama. It's the so-called immutable real experience.

Harutsuge: And that's why, Sasamaru-kun. I agree with your opinion of "kotodama exists."

Sasamaru: That story is too long! And do you really call that kotodama? Wasn't that simply your fault!?

Harutsuge: Then, it means I'm a kotodama-user. Aah, good...I was already a witch.

Sasamaru: "Aah, good," my foot. Yes, that might be a funny story now, but a whole company might have been bankrupted if things went wrong. You almost became a company crusher.

Harutsuge: Don't you worry. Uncle's company achieved an even bigger growth with this incident as a catalyst. Now, it is a first-grade corporation that everyone knows the name.

Sasamaru: I'm so relieved.

I really am.

Harutsuge: I want to be thanked instead. They wouldn't have grown if it weren't for that incident.

Sasamaru: That's in hindsight. And don't tell it. Do not ever tell that story to your uncle. He might already think of that as a funny story. Don't dig that back up.

Harutsuge: I cannot do something mean like that. I properly said it. "I'm the culprit."

Sasamaru: Eh...and, what did he say?

Harutsuge: After making a very amusing face, he pressed me. And pressed.

Harutsuge: And the technique uncle used at that time has become the prototype for my "Harutsuge Hell Tour."

Sasamaru: Got it. No wonder your technique has no love.

Harutsuge: Hmm, now you've said it, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Yes, I said it. I gathered my courage and said it.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. This man said he wants to turn you into his sex slave.

Sasamaru: Stop with such a blatant lie out of nowhere!!

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: Ah, Hiyo. I'm sure you know that Harutsuge is jok...

Hiyo: Honey, if you so wish, I do not mind.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: I may be inexperienced, but please instruct me well.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Hey, Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: ...What is it?

Harutsuge: If you had to die at this very moment, how would you want to die? I'll at least let you choose it.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge is so kind. I'd be so happy if you turned that passion into a different direction.

At any rate, Hiyo's jokes really do make one shiver.

Sasamaru: Really, give me a break.

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Was "KY" short for "Kill You" and not "Klueless Youngster"?

Sasamaru: No, that's completely different.

Harutsuge: Well, when I look at you, that's the only interpretation I have.

Sasamaru: Why is that?

Harutsuge: KY.

Sasamaru: Which meaning did you use?

Harutsuge: KY.

Sasamaru: ...

Anyway...

Before we notice, our tension has been cleared.

Waka: And the winner class of this year's Ayanashisai is...

After going up to the stage, Waka-san tells the winner class' color.

Sasamaru: We...did it?

The words that run up from deep inside my throat are a question.

Sasamaru: We...did it?

I repeat it one more time.

The color announced was...red.

The color that echoed inside the gymnasium was...red.

The one chosen as the winner of this year's Ayanashisai is...
our red team.

Sasamaru: ...

But, for some reason...

Sasamaru: (Why?)

The happiness welling up at this moment is not beyond my expectations.

I thought I would be happier.

Happiness welling up, welling up, filling the vessel to the brim...
and myself drowning in the sea of overflowing joy.

Inside this delight where I couldn't control myself, I thought I would literally "jump with joy."

However...

Sasamaru: (Why am I thinking...{\i1}is that it{\i0}?)

Expectations often get betrayed.
The more you raise your expectations, the more your excitement dampens when you actually obtain the real article.

At this time, people think, "is that it?"
Because human imagination is endless. You have produced from within yourself an expectation impossible to exist normally.

But...
this is different.
At this moment, I have a sensation close to a déjà vu.

As if I had already greatly celebrated once.

Putting in another way, as if {\i1}this result was already decided.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Y...you idiot! What are you saying!?)

What arrogance.
All classes are competing ruthlessly with their prides as weapons. To say that "the victory is decided" is just arrogance.

"Shame on yourself!"
I scold myself once more.

Sasamaru: (But...)

There is this feeling arising despite being sorry.

Sasamaru: (Shit. Don't be so merry just because you won.)

{\i1}Merry?{\i0}

Is it really...
Is it really so?

{\i1}If I'm so merry, why am I breaking out in cold sweat?{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Wha...what the hell!?)

There is a strange feeling lurking deep inside my chest.

It's almost like an uneasiness.

It has built its house deep in my chest and is claiming right to residence.

Sasamaru: ...

Shouting in a loud voice, "I won't leave."

"This is where I belong."

Sasamaru: ...

In short...
{\i1}this discomfort is correct.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (What on earth...is happening?)

Everyone is sending cheers.

Male Student A: You did it! Your project is amazing!

Everyone is giving us their blessings.

Male Student B: Hey, red team!

Male Student B: Thanks for showing us such a great project.

We're receiving enough congratulations to make me cry...
but, with an unsteady pace, I leave to the hallway.

I'm searching.

Inside the gymnasium with all the school students, I'm searching for a single student.

I feel that "I must search."

Aone: ...

But before this, one student stands in my way.

And beyond her, I see the back of one student about to leave.

Aone: Ah!

Almost driven by a strong stimulus, my body moves.

Sasamaru: Waka-san! Wait!

Ah.

Again.

Waka: What now?

Sasamaru: Ah...err, well...

After catching up to her, I am again at a loss for words.

Sasamaru: E...rr...

No, I am not.

I'm not at a "loss" for words.
I "never had" them in the first place.

Then, I mumble like some time ago.

...What am I doing?

Waka: What is your business?

Waka-san has her usual expression while shaking off my hand.

Sasamaru: Well...

Waka: Yes.

Sasamaru: O...our red team won at the Ayanashisai.

Waka: I know. I was the one who said that on the stage.

Sasamaru: That's true.

Waka: And?

Sasamaru: Err...

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: May I go now?

She should say this.

Sasamaru: Sorry for calling you.

Waka-san turns back just like that.

First that and now this. What on earth am I doing?

Despite tilting my head at my own actions, I see her back distancing itself...

"No!!"

As if hurriedly slipping into my mind, these words sharply pierce me.

Sasamaru: Wa...wait!!

I must not let her go like this.

For some reason, I think this.

Waka: You still want something?

I must not let her go like this.

If I let her go, the next time we will meet is...

...at the moment to inform about the worst situation.

This feeling, almost like a conviction, pushes my back.

Sasamaru: Y...you won't go anywhere, right?

Waka: Huh?

Sasamaru: Waka-san...you won't go anywhere, right?

I myself don't know what I'm saying.

But it's as if the reason that I should ask was firmly in my chest.
It's an inexplicable sensation without shape.

Right now, I'm terribly unstable.

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

That's why the voice spilling from my mouth is trembling, almost imploring.

Waka: What do you mean?

Sasamaru: ...I don't know.

Waka: So, you're finally senile, old geezer.

Sasamaru: Maybe.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: But I...I wonder. I don't know why I am thinking this.

Sasamaru: I feel like I won't see you for a while.

And the next time we see each other...

Sasamaru: So, I must not part with you. I feel this for some reason.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: I know that what I'm saying is weird, but I...

Waka: Don't tell me you...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka-san is fixedly looking at me.

Her gaze, almost appraising me, is as though she was testing me.

Waka: Could it be?

Eventually, she sighs, almost with an awkward smile.

Waka: You talk about not seeing each other, but we weren't seeing each other that much in the first place. Even if we were not to see each other, is our relationship close enough for you to feel lonely?

Sasamaru: That...makes sense. You're right, but...

It's exactly as she says.

But, it's not that.
What I want to say is not that.

But this feeling is not turning into words.

I cannot convey this feeling to someone. It's an unclear feeling I myself cannot fully grasp.

Waka: You done?

Sasamaru: Ah...yeah.

Waka: I'll go then.

Then, once again, Waka-san turns around.

"I must not let her go."

This feeling is still arising inside me, but neither words nor errands to make her stop are coming out.

While staring at her back distancing itself, my impatience is worsening.

No.
No.
No.

This swelling-up sentiment is even similar to fear, but it's a fact I have no basis to obey an uncertain feeling of which I don't know the source.

Her back is becoming smaller and smaller.

She is becoming one with the darkness deep in the hallway.

Sasamaru: Waka-san!!

At this moment, I shout.

Driven by an almost bursting impulse.

Waka: ...

Even from afar, I can tell Waka-san has stopped.

Sasamaru: He...hey!

No reason?
No errand?
Then...

Sasamaru: Milk tea is surprisingly good once you drink it. I'm thinking of converting from the green tea group.

Sasamaru: But it must be popular to be sold out like that. I wonder if it's usually sold out at this time.

Yes, a "promise."
I should just promise.

I should just "promise to see each other again."

Sasamaru: It sucks when you can't drink it when you want, doesn't it? I'll buy your share as to not let this happen. Come get it later, okay?

This voice is a loud one squeezed out from deep within my stomach.

But...
it's really trembling, almost imploring.

Waka: ...

Waka-san disappears deep into the hallway just like that.

It's not "almost."
I am imploring.

Sasamaru: I'll be waiting.

I'm surely imploring to her kindness.

I'm sure I'll see her if I wait here.

This isn't a hunch nor anything. I simply cannot hold back my bitter laugh at my actions, with a bit of conviction while feigning coincidence.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-san.

What do I want to do?

Despite feeling this doubt echoing deep in my chest, I still jump at the good fortune that she came here.

Waka: Who'd have thought you were really waiting.

Sasamaru: So, you came while thinking that. Thanks.

Waka: Don't be stupid. I just came to do my daily routine.

Then, as if waiting for these words that I'm sure would come...

Sasamaru: Here.

...I hand over the milk tea I had bought in advance.

Waka: What is that?

Sasamaru: Your daily routine.

Waka: Hmpf, don't get cocky.

After coldly saying this, Waka-san passes in front of me.

And after stopping in front of the vending machine...

Waka: Ugh.

...she makes an expression of despair.

Waka-san's gaze is on the "sold out" lamp blinking on top of the milk tea button.

Waka: Bastard, you tricked me.

Sasamaru: It's just a coincidence.

Waka: Like hell such a coincidence exists.

Sasamaru: Then, maybe it's a harassment a bit too skillful. I think you can't do this unless the vending machine displays how many milk tea cans are left.

Waka: Just buy everything and it's over. Only the milk-chi, silently.

Sasamaru: Unfortunately, I don't have that money.

Waka: Uh.

Trembling in front of the vending machine, Waka-san is glancing sideways at me.

Waka: You don't have money?

Sasamaru: I do have, but I didn't work for my money. My aunt, who took care of me, gave it to me.

Sasamaru: So, I don't have even a single cent to use with harassment.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Here.

Then, I again hold out the milk tea to Waka-san.

After pondering for a while, she...

Waka: I'll ask one thing.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Waka: What did you plan on doing if I hadn't come? Wouldn't your precious money go to waste?

Sasamaru: Yes, that might be so, but...

Waka: But what?

Sasamaru: This was the only idea that I came up with to talk to you.

Waka: ...

After making a shocked expression, Waka-san snatches the milk tea from my hand.

Waka: Hmpf. I'm not grateful.

Sasamaru: Okay, that's not necessary.

Waka: *chug* *chug* *chug*

Then, Waka-san chugs the entire milk tea.
She's really amazing.

Waka: Pheeew.

And then, the delighted Waka-san...

Waka: It's mine.

...again says this while protecting the supposedly empty can, and while being cautious of me.

Sasamaru: Okay, okay, I won't take it.

Waka: Nngh. What's that "I'm used to it" reaction? It's getting on my nerves.

Sasamaru: What do you want me to do?

Waka: Just rush at me while screaming, "g-gimme back me milk-chi," with your full dentures flying out.

Sasamaru: What situation is that? And why is the possessive adjective "me"?

Waka: It's a basic possessive adjective for an old geezer.

Sasamaru: This late, it has reached the perfect point to give up with 'so late it's unrecoverable,' but am I really an "old geezer" to you?

Waka: Not to me. An old geezer is an old geezer.

Just where on earth did I mistake my choice?

Sasamaru: Well, whatever. In any case, thanks.

Waka: Why are you thanking me?

Sasamaru: You said all that, but you're still here talking and keeping me company.

Waka: Ah.

It appears Waka-san finally noticed this situation. She makes a surprised expression.

Waka: You damn schemer.

Sasamaru: Sorry...though, this might be weird since I didn't plan to deceive you. Haha, thanks.

Waka: Just what is your objective?

I really don't know how to answer that.

Sasamaru: I kinda want to talk with you. An idle talk is fine.

I myself don't have the slightest idea about why I am doing this.

For some reason, there's a feeling stirring me up.

A very strong feeling.

So unclear that I'm unable to grasp it. So hazy I cannot see even while squinting my eyes. So faint that I cannot make it clear, no matter how much I think about it.
But it has a very strong power.

I cannot name it, since I don't know its true shape. I can't even call it "something," but...

...this unclear, hazy, and faint something is so hot I can no longer suppress it.

Sasamaru: So, with the Ayanashisai ending, the student council has finished its work, right?

Waka: What a truly idle chat this is.

Sasamaru: Yeah, it's an idle chat.

Waka: Standing your ground now?

Sasamaru: I guess so.

Waka: Hey, I am not an idler!

Sasamaru: Yes, I'm sorry. Very good work on your student council duties.

Waka: Ugh. I have no reason to be thanked by you.

Sasamaru: But I relied a lot on you when we had to order the materials. Once more, thanks.

Waka:That is the norm. You don't have to thank me every single time.

Sasamaru: It's not the norm. We were the ones requesting.

Waka: That perception is wrong. Since you are students from this school, it's the norm for the student council to hear your requests. I merely carried out my duty.

Sasamaru: But the materials arrived very fast despite being a period when everyone was requesting. So, good work.

But it's a bit late to say this.

During the busiest time for the student council, I was so immersed in the project and completely forgot to express my gratitude.

Sasamaru: Yes, good work. And also, thanks.

Waka: Listen, you bald.

Sasamaru: I AM NOT BALD!!

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Hey, you bald.

Sasamaru: Well, listen. First, baldness is defined as having little head hair due to various causes or having completely no hair.

//text on screen
*Grrrr*

Waka: Listen, you bald.

Sasamaru: Whoa, she's strong.

Sasamaru: But I can't yield to her!!

Waka: ...Got it, got it. I'll correct the 'bald'.

Sasamaru: O-okay. I'm glad you understand. Everyone makes mistakes, right?

Waka: And, Mr. "Missing Hair."

Sasamaru: You just put it in different words! Or rather, I really have hair right here! Plenty here! Plenty right here!

Waka: Whoa, so bright.

Sasamaru: Stop frigging lying!!

Waka: What a selfish fella. Err, then, Mr. "Burnt-Field Head."

Sasamaru: Wait, how many nicknames do you plan to give me?

Waka: Then, old geezer.

Sasamaru: Sure, that kinda calms me down. As if I had returned home.

Waka: And, bald old geezer.

Sasamaru: You added an unnecessary one. There's an unnecessary one. Yes, you, this is very important. Pay attention.

Waka: Aah, jeez, I'll turn you into a lump of meat!

Sasamaru: Even if I'm turned into a lump of meat, like hell I'll yield thiiiiiiis!!

Waka: Nngh.

Waka: And, well, I want to say something about this tedious chat.

Sasamaru: Sure, sure. Old geezer here will listen to you. The old geezer here.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Ba...

Sasamaru: Do you know there is another way of writing "shameless"? It's the numbers from one to seven in Japanese. Because, in Confucianism, there are 8 virtues: filial piety, respect, loyalty, honesty, gratitude, courtesy, integrity, and shame. Take the eighth one out and you have shameless.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Well, fine. An old geezer is an old geezer.

Sasamaru: Sure, sure. I'm an old geezer.

Waka: And, old geezer. Hear me.

Sasamaru: Sure, sure.

Waka: I repeat. I accepted your request regarding the Ayanashisai because you're a student from this school. I judged that your request was valid from the project creation's aspect.

Waka: It was not, I repeat, it was not "for you." Okay? This is very important.

Sasamaru: Err, so, that's what you wanted to say?

Waka: What else is there to say?

I know Waka-san's feelings of wanting to highlight that (with the meaning that I'm self-aware she hates me), but I want her to at least let me say thanks.

Well, I can agree that she doesn't want me saying this to her.

Still...
the student council, eh.

I've been living my school life without being aware of it.

When I first came to school, it was right before entering the Ayanashisai's preparatory phase. I can't be thankful enough for her, but...

Sasamaru: (The "transparent student council," eh.)

Hiyo said this some time ago.
"This school's student council is called the 'transparent student council.'"

Because they're not an existence classified by colors like us.

Not red, nor blue, nor yellow.
They're "transparent," belonging to neither of these.

The proof of their purity as those managing the Ayanashisai.

The colorless pledge, always being neutral without supporting anyone.

And exactly because they're such an existence...

Sasamaru: (The mysterious student council, eh.)

There is the fact that the students are enjoying themselves with the mystery of the student council.

Well, of course the topic will become more and more exaggerated if everyone jokes around about this 'secret society' mood.
But even mysterious, a student council is a student council.

This might be an uninteresting way of thinking, but an autonomous organization, established with the objective of nurturing autonomy in order to respect the students' independence, is the same everywhere you go.

Thinking like this, I feel somewhat regretful for knowing nothing about the student council.

Though, I do think the perception of a "mysterious student council" is interesting.

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-san.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: May I ask something about the student council?

Waka: You don't need to know that.

A flat response.

Sasamaru: Err, well...

Removing the "I understand that you don't want to tell me" part that I was about to say, I continue.

Sasamaru: I'm very grateful for the student council at the Ayanashisai, and I will keep being grateful from now on. So, I want to know about the student council. A little is fine.

Waka: That's why you don't need to know.

Sasamaru: Don't say that. Just a little bit is fine.

Waka: No is no. I said that you don't need to know.

Sasamaru: I understand that you don't want to tell me, but...
wait, {\i1}don't need to know?{\i0}

Just when I'm finally about to touch on the core of the matter, I tilt my head at this expression.

Waka: Yes. You all do not need to worry about this.

Sasamaru: But why? It's the student council from our school.

Waka: That's exactly why. You do not need to know about the likes of the student council's activities exactly because you are students from the Yumemidori Academy.

Sasamaru: "The likes"? But the student council represents the students. You say we must not know about the ones representing us students?

Waka: Yes, that's correct. As long as you think that we're acting {\i1}for you.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: Besides, 'representing the students' has a slightly different meaning to this school's student council. Thinking from the point of view of the management of the Ayanashisai—this school's festival—you might call it 'representing,' but...

Waka: ...Hmm. We are calling it "student council" as a matter of convenience. This perception is more correct.

Sasamaru: Err...I don't understand it well.

Waka: The student council exists for the students.

Sasamaru: Yeah, that's true.

Waka: However, we are not acting as an autonomous organization.

Sasamaru: ...What do you mean?

Waka: Did you engage in the Ayanashisai's project with all your energy?

Sasamaru: Yeah, of course. Though, there were many inadequate spots.

Sasamaru: But we presented the red team's project with our heads high.

Waka: That is enough, then. The student council exists to provide such an environment.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Waka: The student council does not exist to supervise you. It is not a barrier not to let you do as you want.

Waka: This school's student council is established by believing in you all. It might be an autonomous organization, established with the objective of nurturing autonomy in order to respect the student's independence.

Waka: But the Yumemidori Academy's student council {\i1}completely believes in you all.{\i0} However, this does not mean your personality and character.

Waka: It believes in {\i1}the meaning of you being here.{\i0}

Sasamaru: The meaning of us being here?

Waka: Yes. You engaged in the Ayanashisai's project with all your energy, correct? Now, you poured all your techniques and artistic tastes you have, correct?

Waka: You were wholeheartedly looking only at the project, without troubling yourselves with sparing time for tasks, such as preparation of the necessary materials and filling out documents to obtain purchase permission, correct?

Waka: The student council exists to support this, to create this environment.

Waka: Aah, what is it?

Sasamaru: We're thinking of starting our work for the Ayanashisai.

Waka: For the Ayanashisai?

Sasamaru: Yeah. So, may I make a request for the necessary materials?

Waka: Ah, got it. I'll prepare it. Could you tell me the contents?

Sasamaru: Huh!? You'll do it?

Waka: What is that face about?

Sasamaru: Well, but...

Waka: You need it to create your "project," don't you?

Waka: The school offers you the best possible environment and also any equipment you request. Why do you think that is?

Sasamaru: "Why"?

Waka: Because it believes in the creators.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: What's wrong?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing.

I feel as if my face was slapped due to my carelessness.

And at this late...
at really this late, I notice that it is thanks to the student council that we were able to engage in the Ayanashisai's project.

We were able to finish it without problems because of their management, of course, and also because of their assistance behind the scenes with our requests.

The beings called artists are, by nature, selfish ones.
They simply desire in order to create the project they envision.

Our red team, too, simply requested to the student council, "we need these materials," or, "we need these tools."

They are the ones who accepted our requests and worked in order to not deprive us.
In fact, everything we ordered reached our hands.

So, we must give everything we got.

It's thanks to their work that we were able to wholeheartedly think only about the project.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

This is why I think these words come out very naturally.

Waka: About what?

Sasamaru: Well, I again realize that it's thanks to the student council that we were able to immerse ourselves in the project.

Waka: Were you listening to me? This is the duty of the Yumemidori Academy student council. There's no need for gratitude.

Sasamaru: Well, but...still, thanks.

Waka: I'm saying it's the student council's function to mobilize the school. Are you grateful to a function?

Sasamaru: There's no need to be that blunt.

Waka: However, this is the truth. It's not limited to the Ayanashisai. The student council is structured as a function to let the students be students.

Waka: We simply did what we had to do. We do not want gratitude.

Sasamaru: Hmm...then, take it just as something I'm thinking inside my heart.

Waka: But I'm saying that is not necessary.

Sasamaru: Yeah, I got it.

Waka: The student council does what it must do, as a structure to let the students be students. So, you should simply do what you must and not worry about this.

Sasamaru: What we...must do?

Waka: You're "artists," correct?

The place's air becomes tense after these words.

Waka: What's with that face? Did you lose your energy just because the Ayanashisai has ended?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Hey, artist. The student council isn't working to support ones without motivation.

Waka: Yes, there are times when one lacks the urge to create. There are even times when one becomes an empty shell with no energy or soul after striving with all strength at the project.

Waka: If you say now is the time to recharge your batteries, I believe you. However, this is because I believe there will be a "next" one. Because I believe in the possibility you hold.

Waka: Are you someone to make merry with the likes of a mere Ayanashisai victory and forget your duty as an artist?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Are you?

Without hesitation, Waka-san stares straight into my eyes.

Her expression is seriousness itself.

Pieced by these eyes, I slap my cheeks with all my strength.

Sasamaru: ...Thanks.

Waka: And another thanks. I was asking, though?

Sasamaru: But, thanks.

Waka-san is correct.
I will dare say this word, but she's "absolutely" correct.

Her sincerity toward the Yumemidori Academy student council.

This pride...
and dignity.
After touching this relentlessness, enough to overwhelm me, the feeling I harbor is respect.

And also...

Sasamaru: Once more, thanks.

Waka: You're impossible.

Now, I stare in the eyes of the shocked Waka-san.

Sasamaru: Thanks for treating us...no, for treating the likes of me as an artist.

There are incredibly talented people around. I can never be arrogant and include myself among them.

I finally realize that Waka-san's statement is treating me, a mere artist aspirant, as a competent artist.

That's why I must at least express my gratitude for this.

Waka: What are you saying now? You are trash, garbage, brute, bald...

Sasamaru: No, I am not bald.

Waka: Even so, as long as you are here in the school, you are an artist.

Sasamaru: But we...no, I am a student. There are many things I still need to learn.

Waka: I will say this in advance.

Waka: I do not want to hear an evasive answer such as "I'm a student" or "I'm still an amateur."

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Use the "I'm a student" excuse only when you exercise your rights.

Sasamaru: The rights?

Waka: Yes. The rights of you, students. Use the right of being a student from this school to the best of your ability. Freely use us until we wear out.

Waka: Use the Yumemidori Academy, the "atelier" you obtained, to the best of your ability.

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

Waka: I will say this as many times as you want. Do not worry about the student council. It exists in order to make you freely display your talents as artists. It is part of your "atelier."

Waka: It does not exist {\i1}to make you turn back every single time.{\i0} Do not mistake this.

Sasamaru: ...Yeah!

I strongly nod.

Sasamaru: Right. You're right. It's as you say.

Waka: Yes, that's good. That's why you have the qualifications to be a student from the Yumemidori Academy.

I feel that I finally understand...

...about why the Yumemidori Academy student council is called the "transparent student council."

They don't brag about themselves and always work behind the scenes.

In other words, a stagehand.
Everyone is aware of its existence, but no one speaks about it.

Although the artists—the actors—are conscious of them, they never publicly thank them.

For both are simply doing what they must.

And to thank them is simply a rude act toward those proudly carrying out their roles.

So, let's softly express our gratitude in our chests.

And be proud of the "atelier" we obtained.

On one side, the students.
On the other, the student council.

In order to accomplish together what we must do here at the Yumemidori Academy.

//subchapter
Flag and Déjà Vu
October 29 (Thursday)
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

Exactly because it is spectacular, the festival's agitation soon passes.

It passes through in a hurry, leaving only a striking and strong impression.

Despite feeling a lonesomeness in this, next comes the shift from our extraordinary into our ordinary.
In other words, we prepare for our normal lessons starting tomorrow.

On this day, it's the duty of the students to clean up the school after the Ayanashisai.

Our red team is tidying up, focusing on the water mill, a place untidy due to the project's presentation.

Araragi: I feel a bit sad when I think we won't be coming here much.

Sasamaru: That's true.

We laughed and cried. Various feelings are packed here.

This is the water mill that watched over our ups and downs.
As to not forget the feelings of gratitude, we must earnestly tidy it up.

Harutsuge: The diligent Sasamaru-kun is so boring. This is where you should start a sword fight with the brooms, throw the blackboard erasers at each other, and make the girls jab with, "hey guys, stop playing around!"

Sasamaru: You just want to say that.

Harutsuge: Because it's girly.

Despite saying this, Harutsuge's hand has yet to rest, cleaning with a frightening seriousness.

Sasamaru: Really, stop hiding it.

Harutsuge: Wow. Sasamaru-kun just did an "I-know-all feeling"

Sasamaru: I really feel down when you get that much shocked.

Harutsuge: Because you are an unprecedented thickheaded king.

I kinda powered up out of nowhere.

Sasamaru: I am working hard, you know?

Harutsuge: That's the spirit. In deference to it, I shall demote you to 'Thou Thickheadedness The King.'

Sasamaru: How cacophonous.

Or rather, where's the jab, "if it's a rank, why did you use a title of honor to demote?"

Harutsuge: Hey, hey. Stop chatting and clean. Clean up.

Sasamaru: Yes, sorry.

Then, we again start carefully cleaning.

Sasamaru: (Which reminds me...cacophonous.)

I suddenly recall that I was often called that in the past.

My name is "cacophonous when you call it in full."

Sasamaru: Suu Sasamaru.

I unconsciously say it out loud.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

It's not...that bad?

Sasamaru: Suu Sasamaru.

Yes, it's not all that good, but it's not that bad either.

How strange. I remember they often made fun of it in the past.

In those days, even I felt it so cacophonous that I thought, "gotta accept it."
 
Harutsuge: There's a person muttering his own name. Super scary.

Sasamaru: Ah, no.

Yes, it is scary. I should restrain myself.

Hiyo: Oh.

At this moment, I hear Hiyo's mutter.

She is spreading the bag to put the garbage.

The next moment, she is about to head to the exit.

Sasamaru: Wait, wait. Hiyo, there aren't enough garbage bags.

Hiyo: Yes. I'll go get more.

Sasamaru: It's fine. I'll go get it in a flash.

Harutsuge: Hmm. You have grown, Sasamaru-kun.

Hiyo: Don't mind. I'll quickly go get it. Honey, please stay here.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. A good woman does not obstruct a man's growth.

Hiyo: ...

Thanks, Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: I'll go get it, then!

What enters my eyes after I leave the water mill is the pond called "mirror pond."

Come to think of it, the "exhibition" work here was very difficult.

What was difficult was to put the red leaves on that tree in the middle.
We borrowed a rubber raft and rowed to the center.

Although we accomplished it with the obstinacy called "we'll put red leaves on all the withered trees in the school," I now think that 'it was quite an accomplishment.'

Then, I run to the school and hurry back to the water mill with the garbage bags in hand.

Sasamaru: (This many should be enough.)

Maybe it's because I'm happy after Harutsuge told me that I "have grown." I got too eager and brought a bit too much.

Well, we can just return it later.

?: Umm.

At this moment, a voice from behind calls me.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

After turning over, the one standing there is Aone.

Somehow, her gaze seems to be examining me, with an almost ashamed attitude.

Sasamaru: ...What's the matter?

I forget my business and reflexively stop.

Seems like it's not the usual her.

Aone: W...well...

Her hesitant tone makes me feel that she's choosing her words.

Aone: I was thinking of saying this...at the Ayanashisai.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aone: No...sorry. This is an excuse. I'm sorry.

What's the matter with her?

Aone: Umm...err...

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Aone: F-first, well, congratulations on the victory.

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah...thanks.

I wonder if she came just to congratulate.

But she said, "first."

Aone: Also...well, about...my sister.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: W...well...

...Ah, that's what she means.

I finally consent to Aone's behavior.

Sasamaru: I said this once before, but you don't have to apologize for that.

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: I'm happy you're worried. But it's fine.

Aone: But...why...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: You said, "once before."

Sasamaru: "Why"? Because you once came to me and...

It was on the day of the Ayanashisai.

After the winner announcement, Aone, the same as now, said words of apology while trembling...

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

Isn't something strange?

After the Ayanashisai's announcement, wasn't I looking for Waka-san?

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: Umm...

Sasamaru: A-aah, sorry. I guess I was mistaken.

Aone: O-okay...and, about my sister.

Aone: So...I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: It's not your fault.

Aone: I'm sorry!

For some reason, I feel as if I had already experienced this once.

But she lowers her head while painfully biting her lips.

Similar to this voice squeezed out from deep within her throat, she's honestly expressing her sad but gallant feelings. The words I should say to her are the same regardless of the situation.

Aone: How...should I say this...I...

Sasamaru: You shouldn't worry about that.

Aone: I cannot...do that.

Sasamaru: Though, it's too late to say this.

Aone: I-I'm sorry.

Sasamaru: W-wait, I didn't mean that.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: Oops.

Aone: Why didn't you tell the truth?

Sasamaru: I wonder why. I already forgot that.

Aone: E...everyone was misunderstanding you!

Sasamaru: That's not it.

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: It wasn't everyone. There were ones who believed me.

Yeah, I can say these words as much as needed.

I want to say this in a loud voice as many times as needed.

Aone: Ah...so, you knew your classmates would believe you? That's why you did that?

Sasamaru: I wonder.

Aone: Y...you might have been bullied!

Sasamaru: ...Bullied?

Aone: Ah...no, it's...nothing.

Sasamaru: ...

So...she's bothered...

...by the actions she took against Hiyo, even if all that was a misunderstanding from youth.

Sasamaru: A conflict between families.

These feelings make these words slip.

...Despite knowing that this isn't something I can intrude into.

Aone: Of course. So, you heard it from Kumigami-san.

...Wait.
Wait, wait, wait.

What is "a conflict between families"?
Do I know something about Aone?

Why did I think so?

Sasamaru: No, it's not that. Hiyo hasn't said anything. Not a single word.

In any case, I must clear this misunderstanding of Hiyo speaking about it.

Aone: I don't mind. It's all true. It's not something to hide anyway.

No, wait, wait, wait.

Why...
Huh?
Why?
What is happening?

Aone: Hey, Suu-kun. Do you remember my name?

Ignoring the confused me, Aone asks this.

Sasamaru: Ah...yeah. It's Shisoku Norika, right?

Aone: ...You remembered.

Aone makes a bashful gesture.

Aomai: Sis has always liked you.

Sasamaru: ...

What...was that?

Aone: "Shisoku" expresses the way to be as a doctor from my household, which has studied medicine for generations.

Sasamaru: A doctor!?

The surprise blows away my momentarily impatience.
Does that mean...

Aone: Yes. The same as Kumigami-san's home.

Sasamaru: Then, conflict, you mean...

Aone: Yes. A confrontation about how to be as a doctor.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: Suu-kun, have you heard about Kumigami-san's surname?

Sasamaru: Y...yeah. It was a long time ago, but I heard about it.

It was...

...the Kumigami household is a "household that made a pledge with the four gods."

Hiyo explained to us about the four gods.

Hiyo: It's Apollyon, Hisclepios, Panaceah, and Hygialien.

She puffed her chest, as if saying that she finally remembered them all.

Araragi: "Hisclepios" sounds like a greeting, right?

Harutsuge: More importantly, "Hygialien" is truly original. Like you'll be raped by an alien. A very immoral name.

Then, a statement from me, who couldn't sense the tone.

Sasamaru: It's Apollo, Asclepius, Panacea, and Hygieia. They're the gods from Greek mythology.

Hiyo: Honey, amazing! And I tried so hard to remember them all!

But Hiyo still complimented me.

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing. I casually read it in a book the other day.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun. Don't pamper him too much. His statement has no malice, but no malice doesn't mean it's good. That will only make the other party lose face.

Thinking back upon it, Harutsuge was scolding me since those days.

Araragi: But I do have a problem with Harutsuge-chan's way of flattering.

Harutsuge: Why are you bitter only to me? And you, what do you mean by greeting?

Araragi: Hisclepios.

Harutsuge: Hisclepios.

Hiyo: Hisclepios!

I didn't know well how, but that greeting became popular between us for a while.

Sasamaru: And Hiyo's home made a pledge with these gods?

Hiyo: Yup! Apollyon, Hisclepios, Panaceah, aaaand Hygiiialien are the gods of the doctors.

Harutsuge: Isn't Hiyo-kun doing it on purpose?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, your nose is bleeding.

Hiyo: And, these very many gods...

Sasamaru: Hiyo, when you put "very" on "many," you're being redundant.

After saying that, I received the "Harutsuge Hell Tour" number one from Harutsuge creeping behind me.

Sasamaru: And...what about those "very many gods"?

Hiyo: Yup, and the one who made a pledge with these many gods was Hipohcrates.

Sasamaru: You mean Hippocrates?

That was the reply I said in my mind, but I kept quiet because the second hell tour was about to start when I was in the "Hippocra" part.

Harutsuge: Hmm, but now there's no joke to make, unfortunately.

Behind me, Harutsuge whispered that.

Now I can say this, but, at that time, Hiyo wasn't making jokes, okay?

Or rather, you're too unshackled, Harutsuge. Despite scolding me.

Araragi: Who's "Hipohcrates"?

When the chat was becoming repetitive, Araragi smartly made it prosper.

With a perfect timing, like "isn't she doing it while actually aware of it all?"

Hiyo: Err, err...

It seemed Hiyo was doing her best to remember.

Hiyo: Huh? And I had memorized it.

But I guessed that she forgot it.
Very fast, tears were accumulating in Hiyo's eyes.

Hiyo: Commentator, allowed.

In no time, Harutsuge snapped her fingers.

Sasamaru: Aah, yes. Hippocrates was a doctor from ancient Greece and was called the "Father of Medicine" and a "great doctor."

Harutsuge: "Hipohcrates."

Sasamaru: ..."Hipohcrates" was a doctor from ancient Greece and was called the "Father of Medicine" and a "great doctor." He is known for leaving countless meritorious deeds.

Well, at the time, I didn't understand it well, but it is said that Hippocrates' most important contribution was the "separation of sorcery and medicine."

It's not limited to Greece. For the people of ancient times, curses and superstitions were thought to be closely related to medicine.

For example, "a plague has spread because we angered the mountain gods," or, "this unknown disease is from the evil spell of a witch."

Hippocrates flatly detached these unscientific matters from medicine, and engraved his name in history as a person who made many contributions to scientific medicine's development.

He is also known as a noble individual who pursued ethics as a doctor and left "the Hippocratic Oath."

//text on screen
O, Gods of medicine.
I swear by Apollo Physician, by Asclepius, by Hygieia, by Panacea, and by all the gods and goddesses,
making them my witnesses, that I will carry out, according to my ability and judgment, this oath and this indenture.

You can say it's a golden saying inherited even to modern times, conveying the stance of how a doctor should be.

Hiyo: Our ancestors swore, "that's how we should be."

"Medicine is benevolence."

The Kumigami household's ancestors swore this as to not forget this will.
They made a pledge as to not break the vow.

It's indeed like "the Hippocratic Oath."

Apollo,
Asclepius,
Hygieia,
Panacea.
The pledge to the four gods of medicine.

However, the number "four" is related to "death" in Japan. It is not appropriate for a person treating patients. So, they placed the character for bestow, "Kumi."

This is a substitute Japanese character when you want to count four but don't want to use the character "four," which could mean death.

For this reason, "Kumigami," meaning 'four gods.'
It is the pledge, as a doctor, to the four gods of medicine.

Hiyo earnestly told us this in her own words.

Sasamaru: "The Kumigami name is a pledge to not forget their resolution."

It is a name engraved with the way to be as a doctor.

Aone: Yes. "Medicine is benevolence." Brazenly and loudly hoisting this idealistic thought, the signboard called 'Kumigami.'

There's a bitter thorn in Aone's phrasing.

Aone: "I understand their mentality as a doctor. However, one cannot save patients with benevolence."

Aone: ...And this is what my father would say.

Sasamaru: ...What do you mean?

Aone: "Medicine is arithmetic."

Aone loudly expresses these words.

Aone: Suu-kun, what is your impression after hearing these words?

Sasamaru: My impression...let me see...

Aone: It's a bad impression, isn't it?

Sasamaru: Well...yes.

Aone: And how does it give a bad impression?

Sasamaru: Hmm...to try to profit by using one's position as a doctor, or to think of a patient simply as a customer who leaves money. Something like this.

Despite having a face of "you're right," Aone says this.

Aone: Don't you think like this? "A doctor must have money in order to save even more patients."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: You can prepare the equipment if you have money. You can touch and adopt even newer and more superior medical treatments. You can even increase the number of excellent doctors. You can make the hospital bigger.

Aone: What most patients need is not a single talented doctor. They need a "hospital to treat them without making them wait," with enough personnel, technology, and facilities to deal with the many patients requiring treatment.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: This is my family's motto. "Medicine is arithmetic." I don't mind whichever impression you have of this, but this is the answer the Shisoku household obtained to always work for the patients.

I'm surprised.
I've never thought seriously about that.

But wait a minute. Which means that Aone's name is...

The older sister is "Norika."
The younger one is "Kiyo."

Don't their names come from "addition" and "subtraction"?

Addition written as the Japanese "Ka" and multiplication written as "Nori," "Norika."
Addition and multiplication.

Subtraction written as "Yo" and division written as "Ki," "Kiyo."
Subtraction and division.

In short, their surname is...

Sasamaru: I got it. "Shisoku" means...

Aone: Yes. It's the Shisoku meaning the four rules of arithmetic.

In short, the four basic arithmetic operations.
The generic name for addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.

Add, subtract, multiply, and divide.

The 'Shi' of 'Shisoku' means the same as 'four'.

Just as the Kumigami household expresses their mentality of "medicine is benevolence" as a doctor in their name, the Shisoku household also expresses their mentality of "medicine is arithmetic" as a doctor in their name too.

Sasamaru: So, that's why the conflict.

Aone: Yes. A sham doctor's idealism of treating the patients with the sophism of benevolence, and a real doctor really devoting himself to the treatment in order to save even one more patient. These two will never unite with each other.

Sasamaru: ...

Aone: Once born, a conflict inherited across generations cannot be stopped. The Shisoku household and the Kumigami household have always been in conflict as doctors in opposite stances.

Sasamaru: ...It's kinda sad.

Aone: Eh?

Sasamaru: Because both departed from the lofty purpose of saving patients. But, to oppose each other simply because the methods are different?

If their objective is the same, why can't they accept each other's methods?

In the end, these feelings of opposition accumulated, and it turned into a conflict between families.

Aone: ...It's hard to say this, Suu-kun. But it's because you exalt the doctors with the word "lofty" that the word "benevolence" gets overlooked.

Aone: Doctors are not lofty. Much less omnipotent. They are merely humans trying to treat another mere human. This is very arrogant.

Aone: Patients arrive every day. If you think of treating even one more patient as fast as possible, a considerable amount of doctors is necessary. You need a large environment and even better equipment.

Aone: Besides, doctors too are humans. They too get sick and lose their composure if overloaded with work. In order to treat in the best possible condition, we must think about the doctors' condition too.

Aone: They're desperate. Desperate to treat. If they could treat patients by immersing themselves in self-satisfaction with the word benevolence, they could treat everyone. But it doesn't work. The real world doesn't work like that.

Sasamaru: ...

...I don't know.

I don't know which one is correct.

I just think that...it's sad.

Both exist to treat patients, but it's unbearably sad they ended up clashing.

Sasamaru: But then, Aone. Why did you aspire to become an artist?

Aone: Eh.

Sasamaru: Because your home's circumstances...though, you might scold me again if I call it like this. You understood your home's circumstances that much, and why did you choose to be an artist?

Aone: W...we...well...err...

At this moment, Aone hesitates.

Aone: ...

For one moment, Aone glimpses at me.

Aone: T-there was a person who...showed me my dream.

Sasamaru: Dream...you mean the dream of becoming an artist?

Aone: Y-yes. There was a very beautiful landscape. And there was a person who made me think, "I too want to give shape to something that beautiful."

Sasamaru: Wow...then, perhaps, are you working to catch up to that person?

Aone: Y-yes, that's right. I've always been working to have this person recognize me.

Aone's cheeks are being dyed very fast.

She's red up to her ears, as if she might start crying any moment now.

Sasamaru: You don't...regret it? I mean, abandoning the path of generations of doctors?

Aone: I don't!!

She strongly...
declares this.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

Why am I asking such a rude thing?

Aone: Ah...I'm sorry...for shouting.

Sasamaru: No, me too, I asked something impudent. Forgive me.

Aone: ...

Sasamaru: ...

An awkward air drifts.

Aone: I...

And it's Aone who breaks the silence.

As if giving one step forward by mustering her courage.

Aone: I won't lose.

Aone: We lost to the red team this year, but next year we won't lose.

Sasamaru: Yeah, me too.

Aone: Yes. Ehehe, thanks for saying that, Suu-kun.

While dyeing her cheeks...
she has a very refreshing expression.

Sasamaru: The blue team won last year, so, it's one win, one loss. Next year will settle this.

Aone: No, it's one loss for me.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Aone: Because it's meaningless if I don't win against you, Suu-kun. There's no meaning in many victories against a red team without Suu-kun.

Aone: There's no meaning if you don't recognize me.

After saying this, Aone...

...reddens her face, as if it suddenly had exploded.

Sasamaru: Does that mean...

Aone: It's nothing! It's nothing! It's nothing!

Aone: T-t-th-t-th-then, I'm leaving! Anyway, sorry! I came here just to tell you this! Sorry! See you, then! See you, then! See you, then!

And...
like a storm as always, Aone leaves the place.

Sasamaru: Err...

And the younger sister, who was searching for her sister who wasn't returning home, is watching it.

Aomai: Waaaaaaaaah.

Aomai: Waaah. Aaaah, sis is at that age. Siiiiiiiiis!

Aomai: Waaaaaaah, waaaaaaaaaah.

After crying for a while, the younger sister...

Aomai: *Sniff* *Sniff*...all right, I'll do my best too.

Aomai: I'll be a "bad kid." Sis, please be happy. Sis.

...with her feelings made anew, runs after her sister.

Belated, I return to the water mill while recalling the events from a while ago.

Sasamaru: (So, Aone's words just now are really...)

Really...
how do I say...it's {\i1}that{\i0}.
Right...?

I find myself blushing a little too.

But, for some reason...
I feel as if {\i1}this isn't the first time I find this out.{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

No.
The insides of my head are getting mushy a little.

Sasamaru: (Still, who'd have thought Aone's surname would have such a meaning.)

Trying to calm down my own feelings, I start thinking this.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo's surname too...and maybe my surname too has some meaning.)

And after I think this...

Harutsuge: Huh? Sasamaru-kun, you alone?

Harutsuge comes from the opposite side.

Sasamaru: Ah, Harutsuge. Sorry for the delay...wait, "you alone"?

Harutsuge: Well, everyone was thinking, "Sasamaru-kun sure is taking his time." Then, Hiyo-kun made up some excuse and left the water mill. I was sure she had joined you.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry for that. Did you too come looking for me?

Harutsuge: As if I'd do something rude like that. I have my own business. Stop acting all spoiled.

Despite saying this, I think.

Sasamaru: (So, Harutsuge's surname...maybe has a "meaning" of some kind.)

I'm sure it has.
A "household" is made up of years and years of history.

Although, does every household have a story "one can easily speak about" like the one from a while ago?
The answer is no.

There's nothing strange about such a thing existing in the so-called "noble lady" Hiyo's household. But this is also the case for Aone's household, which I found out by coincidence.

Besides, being born into a household doesn't necessarily mean one knows about it.

Harutsuge: What's the matter?

Sasamaru: Ah, well, I had this conversation with Aone.

Harutsuge: ...Hmm.

Surprisingly, Harutsuge makes a meek face after I tell her.

Harutsuge: S-so, it's about...one's home.

Sasamaru: Yeah, that's right, but...what's wrong?

Harutsuge: W-well, something's wrong...but it's nothing.

On a side note, all the "Four Noble Ones'" members really are bad at lying.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: No, if you don't want to talk, we'll end the topic here.

We get on our way to the water mill.

I think of looking for Hiyo, but we'll have more chances of joining with her if we return to the water mill rather than looking for her and passing by each other.

For a while, I chat while walking with Harutsuge, but...
she's not with her usual sharpness.

She was somewhat pondering all this time.

Harutsuge: There's something that was always bothering me.

Suddenly, she says this.

With a stiff expression, as if saying, "I can finally break the ice."

At this moment, Harutsuge is with very, very serious eyes.

Sasamaru: Yeah, what is it?

After I ask back, Harutsuge chooses her words and opens her mouth.

Harutsuge: Do you know the names of every household affiliated with your home?

Sasamaru: Households affiliated with...my home?

Without understanding her meaning, I parrot her words.

Harutsuge: Ah, no...this is too abrupt.

A bit hesitant, Harutsuge continues.

Harutsuge: I...I overheard that your home has quite an old history. And I heard this at that time.

Makes sense. Yes, I haven't talked about my household to the girls.

Thinking again, I feel that's a bit surprising, but...
we are connected without the need to talk about this.

Although, because we are "childhood friends," our homes are in the same school district.

It's not strange if they heard about my home on some occasion. They must had been bothered but didn't have an opportunity to ask.
It's not strange if this happened.

I would have answered if they asked.
I would have told everything I know, as much as they wanted.

But, setting aside anything concrete, the girls must have guessed "something" and not even once did a question come from them. Putting it simply, this is their first question.

Harutsuge: ...

Harutsuge, who fires the first question, has a stiff expression.

Harutsuge: I-if you can't say it, it's fine too.

Sasamaru: No, it's not something to hide.

So, I really would have answered if they had asked.

This must be the difference between "I myself saying it" and "answering after someone asks."

After all, "all this time" has passed.

Sasamaru: Though, I don't know anything about my home.

I was simply raised by learning the techniques.

Or, more accurately, I ended up learning the techniques in the course of the mistreatment.

I somehow guessed about the old history Harutsuge speaks of, but I have no idea about what it is.

Perhaps I know less than the neighbors.

I don't know at all about the origin of the "techniques to destroy humans" dwelling in this fist.

Harutsuge: O-okay.

Sasamaru: Sorry.

After I say this, Harutsuge makes a meek expression.

Harutsuge: Wh...what I know is that your surname "Suu" actually has a meaning.

To my surprise, Harutsuge starts opening up.

Harutsuge: Do you know about "Suuken"?

Sasamaru: It's the originator of rock-paper-scissors, right?

Suuken, or also Kazuken, is not a hand-to-hand martial art. It's a type of fist play.

Due to entering from China through Nagasaki, it is also nicknamed Nagasaki-ken and Kiyou-ken. For example, two people let out the fingers from one hand and count how many fingers there are.

Rock-paper-scissors is a simplified version, where only the minimum 0, the maximum 5 and the middle 2 of Suuken are used.

Summing up, the minimum 0 is the rock, the maximum 5 is the paper, and the middle 2 is the scissors.

In doing so, a three-way situation is created by changing from numbers to rock, paper, and scissors.

There was an ancient game in Japan called Sansukumi-ken. In short, they introduced the fists' representation from suuken.

Harutsuge: Your household is...the leader of an ancient martial art.

Sasamaru: The leader?

Harutsuge: Yeah. The leader, combining all four parts composing the human body.

Harutsuge: In short, the four: "head," "torso," "arms," and "legs." And four schools were created from this martial art.

Harutsuge repeats "four."
The same "four" as the "Four Noble Ones."

Harutsuge: Each part accumulated history while pursuing their mastery and gradually became independent. Not as a united one, but as independent pursuers.

Harutsuge: You may call these ones the branch families from your household. They're not related by blood, but, for martial artists, they're families sharing techniques equivalent to blood.

Harutsuge: This might sound paradoxical, but your household became the leader because of this. I'm talking about your very, very, very, very old ancestors. Though, I don't know to which generation it traces back.

Harutsuge: And, because of this, your ancestors altered the name. As the one managing the four schools.

Sasamaru: And that is..."Suu"?

Harutsuge: Correct. The 'four' in suuken is called "Suu." Then, they use the Japanese character "Suu," meaning reverence.

Sasamaru: Makes sense.

I'm strangely admiring that my surname has such a meaning

But, thinking about it, it's a curious coincidence.

The Kumigami household, pledging to the four gods, and the Shisoku household of the four basic arithmetic operations.

Above all else, the number "four" of the "Four Noble Ones."
Most Japanese people detest this number, but I'm somewhat happy about it.

Sasamaru: But, Harutsuge. You're sure well-informed.

Yes, we lived in the same school area, but we weren't neighbors nor anything.

Even if we were neighbors or lived next to each other, I wonder if we would know so much about the history of someone else's home.

Harutsuge: I-is that so? T-th-this is common knowledge, yes.

Yes, my home apparently was famous in name only, but...
it was long ago when this name spread and prospered.

It was a poor home, at least in my father's generation.

I might understand if Harutsuge were a martial arts' enthusiast and investigated the history of my home, but I never heard anything like this.

Although, Harutsuge's father initiated her into martial arts. She might have heard this from him.

Sasamaru: Then, Harutsuge, what meaning does your surname have?

Harutsuge: Ah, yes. The Kashi surname...

Sasamaru: ...Hmm?

After starting speaking, Harutsuge appears to be holding back her words.

And like this, she closes her mouth.

After some time with her eyes closed, as if she was silently praying, she...

Harutsuge: Let me see.

She eventually opens her mouth, as if she had resolved herself.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: This might be a good opportunity. Could you listen to my story?

With the same serious face from a while ago, Harutsuge looks at me.

Harutsuge: The truth is...

Araragi: Ah, there you are.

Then, Araragi arrives.

Araragi: You weren't quite coming back, so, I came looking for you.

Sasamaru: Sorry. We got delayed.

Today is the day to tidy up, but we ended up chatting.

Sasamaru: Sorry, Harutsuge. I'll listen to that later. Could we tidy up things first? I haven't worked at all.

Harutsuge: No...it's fine. We'll leave it for later.

With a dampened spirit, Harutsuge makes a complex expression, as if she was disappointed or maybe relieved.

Sasamaru: Y-you...sure? Sorry there.

Harutsuge: No...it's I who should apologize...yes.

Sasamaru: ...?

I don't quite get it, but let's clean things up first.

Sasamaru: Sorry there, Araragi. And Harutsuge too. You two may take a break. I'll take care of the rest.

Araragi: I am very sorry to say this, Sasamaru-chan. But the cleaning up is already done.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Araragi: I was about to say to you, "you went out of your way to bring more garbage bags, but we won't need it anymore."

Sasamaru: Ah, I'll carry the trash, then. I'll quickly go.

Araragi: And that, Harutsuge-chan already...

Sasamaru: ...

So, Harutsuge was returning after throwing the trash out.

Sasamaru: I'm sorry.

Araragi: It's fine, it's fine. After you left, there were only simple ones left. Don't worry.

I wonder. I feel that they're being considerate.

Harutsuge: ...

I peek beside myself. Harutsuge, who always punishes me with bitter words in times like these, still appears disappointed and isn't speaking.

...Now I'm lost.

Araragi: Well, only Hiyo-chan remains.

Being considerate of me again, Araragi changes the topic.

Shit, the girls are too accomplished and steal my time to shine, degrading me into a useless person.

I was thinking that waiting at the water mill would be more efficient. But now, it's better to look for Hiyo...

Hiyo: I am right here.

Araragi: Wow, a Japanese ninja!

Hiyo: I am, at all times, his shadow.

Thinking I really have no value, I cry a little.

Araragi: My home's surname?

After that, it's now after classes, and we are now on the way back to the dormitory. I ask Araragi the same question.

Araragi: Yup. I heard about it.

Sasamaru: What meaning does it have?

Araragi: Umm. I heard our ancestors were watching the "divided ones."

Sasamaru: The divided ones?

Araragi: Yup. People together at first but became divided.

Araragi: For example, people who pursued some path and separated in order to see it deeper, seeking a more elevated location, but start quarreling for some reason.

Harutsuge: Eh.

Araragi: For example, people who have the same objective but oppose each other because of different methodologies.

Hiyo: Eh.

Araragi: Of course, with the reason of "developing further," but...out of nowhere, they were doubting and restraining each other...and our ancestors said that it was very sad.

Araragi: Exactly like the Japanese character "yume," which means dream.

Sasamaru: As the character...for dream?

Araragi: Yup. "Dream" now has the lovely meaning and strong image of hope, but originally it meant "not seeing clearly."

I tilt my head: "Did dream have such a meaning?"

Sasamaru: Ah, I got it. It's how the Japanese character was made.

Araragi: Yup. Nice one, Sasamaru-chan.

You first understand the meaning of a Japanese character after decomposing it.

For example, the character for 'I', "私".
To the left, the "禾" means ear of rice, and beside it, the "ム" means a plow.
It represents a person cultivating by using a plow.

And why is a farmer "I"?
Because it is "one belonging to a home," a "servant farmer." In short, a "serf."

However, the perception of servitude from "I" has changed recently.
Nowadays, it is said many people do not even know the difference between public and private—that is, "I"—It has completely become the "I" which means individual.

Disassembling the character like this, one can understand its original meaning.
But, with this meaning, the word for dream...

Dream is "夢". The top grass-crown "艹" part originally meant the shape of eyelashes and not grass.

Why was it eyelashes? It's simple once you look at the character below it, with means eye "目" sideways.

Summing up, the top part of the character for dream "夢" means "one who watches with large eyes."

And now the below part.
It has the "冖" meaning 'to cover' and "夕" meaning 'numerous', blocking up those "large eyes."

For this reason, dream "夢" became a Japanese character for representing "not seeing clearly."

Araragi: And the "no" from Yumeno means "namely," or "that is." It is often used as a conjunction or adverb, but in Japanese, it can also mean 'something already finished' or 'a past event.'

"Not seeing clearly." "Namely."

"Not seeing clearly means something already in the past."

I think I understand its intention somewhat.

Summing up, they want us to look at their names and notice this.

Sasamaru: Wow.

How do I say...Araragi's home really is Araragi's home.
Or rather, I think her personality is like her lineage.

Araragi: Huh? What's the matter, Hiyo-chan? Harutsuge-chan?

Hiyo: I-it's nothing.

Harutsuge: N-nothing really.

Araragi: Really?

Sasamaru: And, what about the "divided ones" your ancestors were watching?

Araragi: I don't know well about that. They were like very close friends of my ancestors.

Hiyo: Don't tell me...

Harutsuge: It's a coincidence...isn't it?

Araragi: ?

//subchapter
"I know about love"
October 30 (Friday)
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

I got surprised.

Our teacher Onitake-sensei collapsed during the homeroom.

Everyone was surprised at this sudden situation, but it appears it was just a cold.

Sasamaru: (The teacher was pushing herself too hard for us.)

I recall the teacher's behind-the-scenes efforts that I heard from Harutsuge. I'm filled with feelings of regret.

And at the same time, I'm filled with proud feelings of "I'm glad she's our teacher."

Please,
do not forget...that you did not need me.

That you {\i1}did not need an adult.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (Teacher.)

When I realize my mouth is with a smile, a shadow walking from across the connecting hallway enters my field of vision.

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-san.

Waka: You again.

There is Waka-san's abuse after my greeting.

Her behavior toward me never changes.

As if saying that this is the distance between us.

Sasamaru: Here you go.

Waka: Hmpf.

Waka-san takes the milk tea can to the mouth.

If there's a small difference, it's the fact that she's stopped drinking the milk tea all at once.

This is somewhat similar to the relationship change with a stray cat.

They always live beside danger, so, they're very vigilant in their first meetings. They hurriedly eat any food given to them as soon as they have their hands on it.

But, with the passage of time, just as they gradually start eating slowly before me.

She might get angry if I compare like this, but there are similarities.

I'm happy about this.

Waka: Aah...

While enjoying the drink's smoothness, Waka-san expresses an almost overflowing happiness.

To see her happy face has become one of my pastimes.

These last days, this has become my every day.

Waka: Hmm?

While I'm staring at Waka-san, she notices my gaze and makes an expression of distrust.

Waka: What? It's mine.

Sasamaru: No, I was thinking, "she drinks with so much joy."

Waka: But of course, Milk-chi is the supreme drink.

Sasamaru: Was milk tea always your favorite drink?

Waka: No, big sis gave me one once. It was after that.

Which means it wasn't so long ago.
Because they met each other at this school.

Sasamaru: You never drank it before that?

Waka: No.

Sasamaru: Okay. So, you thought it was good after drinking it.

Waka: But of course. It was big sis who gave it to me.

Sasamaru: Wait a minute. You make it sound as if the taste itself doesn't matter.

Waka: The 'taste of home' starts from here. Delicious or not is secondary.

I don't quite get it, but she's really trying to build the Waka Family in this school.

Sasamaru: A kind and filial child you are.

I myself say this, but I don't get it. It's curious how this doesn't sound odd from the course of the conversation.
And with the bonus of "gotta accept it since it's Waka-san."

Waka: I want to ask something about you.

Then, after drinking about half of the milk tea, Waka-san mutters this.

Sasamaru: What is it?

Waka: Do you think "kindness" is something we are instinctively endowed with?

Sasamaru: Instinctively...you mean as a human instinct?

Waka: Yes. Or do you think we acquire it with experience?

Without understanding the meaning of the abrupt question, I tilt my head.

Waka: For example, in the same way of "to be kind to others because you feel happy when others treat you kindly," do you think one learns from experience and applies this to the bonds with others?

Sasamaru: Is that like..."to be able to be kind to others because one knows about pain"?

Waka: Yes. Because you learned that "you should be kind to others." You learned that "this is correct." Do you think this is why humans do this?

Sasamaru: ...

I now tilt my head at the content of the question itself.

In short, do humans naturally have kindness and sympathy?
Or is it something acquired later?

Sasamaru: That's difficult.

Humans...
are not good by nature.

This is a sad truth everyone knows.

If a person were raised until now without ever receiving love, I wonder if this person can display love toward others.

Does this person know about love without ever being taught?
This is what it means.

Sasamaru: ...

If there were someone born in such a sad environment, I'm sure this person has feelings of kindness deep in their hearts.
They simply don't know to express it.

What they only understand if they were taught is how to express love.

I want to believe so...
but...

...Excuse me.
The subject of that "punishment" is me.

I said that simply because I thought it was "strange."
Because I thought, "that is absolutely wrong."

"Good kid" and "bad kid."

This is not love.
This is just my ego.
Merely an ego to satisfy myself, with "I can only agree by doing this."

Waka: What do you think?

Sasamaru: I...

Kindness isn't something humans are born with.
They only learn it with experience.

I know this.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: Well...

For some reason, I'm reluctant to say this conclusion that stops at my throat.

Sasamaru: I...

Sasamaru: I think kindness is something humans are instinctively endowed with.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: I...think so.

Waka: Do you simply want to think that?

Sasamaru: I won't deny that.

I do an awkward smile.

Waka: Hmpf.

Waka-san makes a gaze of astonishment and also of appraisal.

Waka: There might also be this point of view: there's value in learning this from contact with others, exactly because humans aren't born with it.

Sasamaru: That might be so. But I think it is instinctively endowed.

Waka: By nature?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Waka: Then, why is there the difference between humans who have it and humans who don't?

Sasamaru: Waka-san, I think the "learn from experience" you speak of lies there. It is something everyone naturally has, but it is suppressed by the environment, without any opportunity to touch it, and people cannot be aware of it.

Waka: So, {\i1}everyone has it but simply doesn't notice?{\i0}

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Waka: That's a terribly idealistic argument.

Sasamaru: I do not think so. I think it's not a "terribly idealistic argument," it's "simply a fact."

Waka: Hmm.

For one moment, an expression I've never seen before appears on Waka-san's face.

Waka: You say humans have kindness regardless of the situation?

Sasamaru: Yeah.

I nod.

Sasamaru: Humans are incomplete, full of mistakes, and greedy. So, there might be times when they become engrossed in something in front of them and forget about that.

Sasamaru: But, even if they happen to forget it, humans can remember it if someone helps them notice it.

Waka: Naturally?

Sasamaru: Yeah. This is how the living beings called humans are.

Waka: Hmpf.

After putting a suggestive smile on her mouth, Waka-san turns around.

It appears she has drunk all the milk tea before I noticed.

Waka: I'm going, then.

Sasamaru: Yeah, see you later.

This is our short meeting, until she finishes the milk tea.

Before I noticed, this has become our every day.

While returning to everyone, I think about today's conversation with Waka-san.

Sasamaru: (If kindness is instinctively endowed or not, eh.)

The words that came out of my mouth were an affirmation.

Sasamaru: (This is fine.)

Yes, this is fine.

Also, this is something I must never mistake.

At least for me.

Regardless of the truth, even if it were something unshakable, I have to assert this.

Waka: There might also be this point of view: there's value in learning this from contact with others, exactly because humans aren't born with it.

Yes, that's right.

Still, I dare affirm this.

Sasamaru: (I know this answer.)

I know if it's true or not.

Even so...

Even while knowing, the words coming out of my mouth have to be an affirmation.

Sasamaru: (I won't yield.)

Because I...

Sasamaru: Then, to celebrate our Ayanashisai victory...

Sasamaru: Cheers!

The three: Cheers. Cheeeeeers! Cheers.

We make a celebration party at our dorm.

It's decorated with the name of 'victory party.'

Waka: What's with that face? Did you lose your energy just because the Ayanashisai has ended?

Yes, to be merry with the victory and forget one's duty is putting the cart before the horse, but...

...to share the happiness of the victory obtained with everyone is never wrong.

Sasamaru: (Though, it's unfortunate that the teacher couldn't come.)

There's also her cold, but the teacher turned down the request to participate in our victory party.

"This is what you all obtained. It should be held with just you all."

"Please, do not forget that you did not need me."
Exactly as these words that she said.

The party got lively, and we praised each other's strenuous efforts.

The party was at full height.

Suddenly, Araragi and Harutsuge...
how do I say, I got surprised that they started a quarrel, which is very unlike them, but...

...Hiyo skillfully handled it, and we avoided further problems.

Then, when we are cleaning up.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: Sorry for that.

Sasamaru: Eh? Ah...you drank too much, right? Don't worry.

Harutsuge: Unbelievable. And it's even a drinking party. So, I too have grown old.

Hey, you're only one year apart from me.

Harutsuge: By the way...err...

Harutsuge is hesitant in speaking out.

Harutsuge: Recently...err, well...

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: I guess you're going out in the evening.

Her tone is very unclear.

Evening...
I guess she means when I'm with Waka-san.

Harutsuge: J-just where are you...

Sasamaru: Aah, well...

I'm not specially hiding it.

Although, I myself find it hard to answer "why."
And in the first place, I don't want to hide things from them unless it's something serious.

Harutsuge: Ah, no, it's fine, it's fine.

She holds me back before I can say it.

Harutsuge: It's none of my business, right? Sorry for asking something trivial. I was just a bit bothered.

Sasamaru: No, it's not that big a deal. I was...

For some reason, I feel I must do this.

It's different from a sense of duty. It's closer to a personal desire, but...
I don't know the reason well.

Harutsuge: Ah, no, it's fine. Really, it's fine.

Harutsuge again holds me back before I can say it.

Harutsuge: Well, let's drink.

Sasamaru: We just finished drinking. Also, aren't you drunk?

Harutsuge: Ah, that's right. One more thing.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Harutsuge: The Ayanashisai has successfully ended, but did you already start working on a new project?

Sasamaru: Yeah, kinda.

So, she noticed.

I'm not saying that Waka-san encouraged me, but, yes. I started working on a new project.

Harutsuge: Hmm, I too can't keep wasting my time.

Harutsuge says this in admiration.

Sasamaru: Don't you make individual projects?

Harutsuge: Yes. Excluding the Ayanashisai's project, I haven't worked on anything aside from the class work. The last project I completely finished was quite a long time ago.

Harutsuge: I was so young in those days.

What is she starting now?
What are those distant eyes about?

Harutsuge: At that time, I didn't realize the "difference between knowing and creating." When I noticed this, I wanted to beat my character into shape and decided to first take classes without creating any project.

Sasamaru: Sure. Well, everyone goes through that once.

There's something called "the difference between knowing and creating" in the trap creators are prone to fall into.

I think it's easier to understand by comparing it to a novelist. Let's say there's a person aspiring to become a novelist. Of course, this person will put effort into his or her dream.

The contents of this "effort" are tricky. There are ones who read books like mad, following the words of the predecessors: "read many books."

Of course, this in itself is good. You can always make use of what you absorb with this.

The problem is, strangely, when a feeling similar to a misunderstanding is born.

This person knows the contents of the book.

They remember the feelings of excitement, and also remembers which tricks were used and the interesting characters it had.

By repeating this, they start having a good eye. They start pointing out what was excellent in an interesting story, and what was bad in a boring one.

At this time, they may think: "I can make something more interesting" than the boring one.

And at the same time, they're convinced that "I know all those interesting stories. I can make something as good as those."

This is the trick.

This person simply "knows."
But this person thinks, "I can create too."

This is one of the reasons that, for example, when a publisher holds a rookie award, there are awfully many works similar to those sold recently.

This person seriously believes: "that one sold that much, so, my work is more interesting and will sell much more."
And "knowing" is different from "creating."

Harutsuge: Well, inside their project, the creators are a "god" in some way. Though, this is a trap they're prone to fall into.

Sasamaru: A "god"?

Harutsuge: I mean, the creators. They create the individuals as they so desire, move them, and construct the story. Finally, they can create the world itself and its unique rules.

Sasamaru: Aah...that makes sense.

I agree with it.
This is the same for novelists and painters.

They construct their own worlds from zero, whether it is on top of a white paper or on a white canvas.

Sasamaru: I'm still just a brat. I was simply engrossed in it. So engrossed in the joy of creating, of being able to create, that I never thought about that.

Harutsuge: No, that is fine. You're fine like that.

Sasamaru: But why?

Harutsuge: People who think that "the creator is a god" are prone to lose sight of everything. If you can engage in your project without being conscious of this, just keep at it. Forget all I said.

The god inside a tiny painting.

The more people recognize this painting, the more this world's population increases.

Sasamaru: (But Harutsuge seemed bothered.)

I talk to myself after finishing the cleaning.

Harutsuge is our elder sister.

She often doesn't say anything, but she's actually the first to notice any change in her friends.

She doesn't say anything because she's watching over us.
And she speaks out when she, fully aware of her role, judges that "she has to act."

Sasamaru: (I wonder if I...made her have the wrong idea.)

But yes, I've been disappearing from their eyes at the fixed time these last few days.

This might have made Harutsuge get an unthinkable wrong idea.

Sasamaru: (Although, how should I explain this?)

It's hard to explain to others something I myself can't explain.

Harutsuge might guess my feelings in such a situation, but still, my behavior is too inexplicable.

She can't possibly know where I stand, let alone surmise my feelings.

Sasamaru: (My...feelings?)

All this time, I was prioritizing the intention of "I have to do this for some reason," but I never thought about it.

I know it's closer to a personal desire rather than a sense of duty, but I've never thought like this.

...My feelings.

Sasamaru: (I want to see...Waka-san?)

I wonder if the true shape that is making me act suspiciously and also stimulating me are these feelings.

Sasamaru: ...

This is so astonishing that I unwillingly tilt my head.

Sasamaru: (I want to see her...but why?)

I think it's more accurate if I say that "I must see her" rather than "I want to," but both are similar.

"My desire is to see her."

I have a strange feeling when I put in words like this.

Because this means...

Sasamaru: (Don't be ridiculous.)

And I immediately reply.
How ridiculous.

I'm unfamiliar with these, and I'm thickheaded, exactly as Harutsuge points out. But even I can distinguish that "this is different from that."

I haven't fallen in love, so, I can't affirm anything, but...

...it is similar indeed.
But it's different.

Sasamaru: (Then, what on earth are these feelings?)

I feel Harutsuge will say, "you have never fallen in love anyway," if I bring this topic to her.

"You simply don't know your real feelings."
You're "thickheaded."

She has actually called me this several times.

Sasamaru: (Long ago, I was attracted to Araragi, eh.)

I was surprised when she told me.

Surprised and...
huh?

Sasamaru: (Did Harutsuge tell me this?)

This again.
What on earth...

It's too awful to be a déjà vu.
It's as if I can't distinguish between delusion and reality.

What Harutsuge told me.

What Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: Thickheaded.

She told me so many times that it's the first thing that comes to mind.

I am thickheaded.
Yes, that's true.
I can't deny this.

But...

...I know about love.

That radiant and unobtainable jewel that I grasped with these hands.
I know about it.

Then, the sensation of it vanishing from these hands.

Sasamaru: Eh.

What is this?
What on earth is this?

Vanished?
Hiyo vanished?

{\i1}As if becoming transparent, she vanished?{\i0}

Sasamaru: Ah!

What...is this?

Sasamaru: What on earth is this!?

Hiyo: H-honey?

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan? What's the matter?

Sasamaru: Eh.

Maybe because I let out a loud voice, everyone has gathered out of nowhere.

Harutsuge: Hey, Sasamaru-kun. I don't hate that clichéd joke, but there's no point if you mistake it. Shouldn't you say "the hell is this!!" instead of "what on earth is this"?

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan, Harutsuge-chan. I think this isn't the place to display your strictness with arts.

Harutsuge: The hell is this!!

Harutsuge: Ah ha ha ha.

Araragi: Sorry, I guess she's still drunk. Don't mind her too much.

Hiyo: Honey? What is the matter?

Sasamaru: Ah...n-no. It's nothing.

What image was that?

It was too vivid.
So vivid I could even feel a faint sigh.

As if {\i1}I had experienced it.{\i0}

As if it was scorched into my eyes.

Sasamaru: M-maybe I drank too much? Sorry, sorry.

I jump out into the hallway.

What the...

Sasamaru: What on earth was that!!

It was a scenery as if the world was colored with a fantasy paint.

But the events happening there cannot be expressed with the fleeting and sweet word of fantasy.

Sasamaru: (You kidding me!?)

Driven by the impulses of wanting to punch myself, I bite my lips with the canines.

Daydream.
Is this what it is about?
So, that was a dream?
If it is, then I imagined it?

Sasamaru: (If it is, I cannot forgive myself!)

I cannot forgive myself, who imagined the girls disappearing.

I feel sick at myself.

The welling-up gastric juice bittersweetly dyes the insides of my mouth.

Sasamaru: Hah, ah!

But calmness will come after the violent feelings settle down.

Sasamaru: (It's not...)

It's not a dream.
It's not a daydream.

After asking, "then, what is it?" the answer isn't coming.

The repeated déjà vu recently.
A sensation as if I "had already experienced it once."

But I already realized that it is not something uncertain like a déjà vu.

Because I have confidence.

I have a strong feeling echoing deep in my chest.

I fell in love.

I did fall in love.

I finally was able to notice the feelings I couldn't notice so far.

I certainly fell in love.

And all this has "been undone."

//subchapter
Symbol of Deceit
October 31 (Saturday)
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

Since then, I've been thinking all this time...

...about the real shape of this déjà vu.

And the confidence that I cannot call it a déjà vu.

What is supporting this feeling is the truth called "love."

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

It's not a misunderstanding.
It's not an illusion.

That feeling strong enough to scorch this chest.

And that feeling soft enough to completely fill this chest.

There would be something wrong with myself if I had forgotten about it.

Sasamaru: (Sorry, Hiyo.)

But why has it "been undone"?

To begin with, why {\i1}am I here now?{\i0}

Sasamaru: ...

After collecting myself and looking around, feelings of "maybe I'm strange for thinking like this" arise.

This is just a déjà vu, just a daydream.
It's a self-defense act to remain normal, as if painting over with common sense a delusion you naturally see.

Maybe {\i1}I'm strange for thinking this.{\i0}

But I can't turn back after discovering the whereabouts of the feelings burning this chest.

Sasamaru: (What's strange is {\i1}the world here and now{\i0}.)

Am I insane, or is it the world?

Like staring straight at the madness, like peeking into the abyss, it is a mental state trembling between normal and abnormal.

But, honestly, to deny everything reflecting in my eyes and rely only on my conviction is harsh.

Everything reflected in my eyes has an overwhelming sense of reality, trying to tell me what is correct.

Replacing the normal with the abnormal, it is trying to invert the location of the normal itself.

Sasamaru: (Hiyo!)

Clinging to this single feeling...

...I keep resisting everything that is reflected in my eyes.

Today is a day off.

So, she might not come today.

I'm thinking this, but...

The same time.
The same place.

Coming from the other side, Waka-san takes the milk tea that I—standing still beside the vending machine—hold out to her, as if we were passing by each other.

She coming here means, in other words, that she too "didn't doubt I would come here."

I'm happy about this.

My usual every day that became "usual."

My usual every day, built on top of a lie.

Sasamaru: (How should I...accept it?)

The normal, supported by a thin layer, might frailly crumble away like "usual" by a single word from her.

It might easily invert itself if I, for one moment, doubt the foundation I'm clinging to.

I naturally stiffen myself in order to withstand the existence called "Waka-san who is here and now."

But, as if suffering a disappointment, this day is different from "usual."

Waka: Come.

A single word.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Ignoring my reflexive reply, she is becoming more and more distant.

Sasamaru: (She just said..."come," right?)

Yes, no doubt about it.
She said this.

Waka-san said, "come."

The situation has moved.
Still inverted, it has moved.

But I still don't know why I am doing this.
It's still uncertain.
Even now, it is still uncertain, but...

...now, something has finally started moving.

...While frantically clinging to the truth like a house of cards.

Sasamaru: And, where are we going?

While walking with Waka-san leading me, I speak out this doubt.

Waka: The student council room.

For one instant, these words make me surprisingly...
surprised.

It's not a clean phrasing, but this representation is by no means wrong.

Sasamaru: The student council...room?

If I'm correct, the student council room was...

...the one taking the role of developing the perception of "mysterious student council."

Sasamaru: Is it okay?

Overwhelmed by surprise, I ask an extremely vague question.

Waka: What is?

Sasamaru: Aah, well...to lead someone like me.

Waka: There is something I want to show you.

Waka-san says this without even turning over.
I've already gotten used to her cold attitude toward me, so, I'm not bothered by it, but...

...I wonder what she wants to show me.

But she said just that and is silently walking.

Sasamaru: (Still, the student council room, huh.)

Quite some time has passed since I came to this school, but, just like everyone, I still haven't stepped into it.

On the contrary, I haven't even seen a place similar to it.

While creating the project for the Ayanashisai, we walked around the school and grasped the location of the withered trees, but we didn't catch sight of it even at that time—although we weren't searching for it.

It is a place with a shady history: no one knows its location.

Sasamaru: Are the other student council members there?

Waka: No.

A simple answer.

Then again, today's a day off.

Sasamaru: (But this is a...chance, right?)

It's a sudden chance to know about the student council.

The Yumemidori Academy student council.
Also called the "transparent student council."
This is the duty they imposed upon themselves, and their disposition.

Their touching enthusiasm is conveyed.
I think we students should accept this and be considerate of them, working behind the scenes.

Sasamaru: (But I'm happy.)

...With Waka-san, treating the likes of me as an artist.
...With the student council.

For the student council, this might be natural since I'm a student here, but still, I'm unbearably happy.

So, I want to know about the student council.
I want to know about those supporting me.

It's a chance unexpectedly granted to me. I want to know about them.

...Despite warning myself that I must never speak out these feelings.

Sasamaru: Huh?

This is the...connecting hallway, right?

Did we return?

Sasamaru: Waka-san? Weren't we going to the student council room?

Waka: It's in front of you.

In front?

In front...?
Didn't we just wander around and return to the connecting hallway?

Waka: We have already entered "that side."

Then, the place she urges me to...

...is here.

Sasamaru: This is the...student council room?

Waka: Correct.

This place is too {\i1}bare{\i0} to be called a "room."

Bare rocks, bare trees, bare earth.
Outside and also inside, a place including contradictions.

The student council perform their duties here?

Of course, I question this, but what I question the most is...

Sasamaru: Such a place was...here?

It's here.

I have walked around here several times, but was there such a place here?

Waka: It was always here.

Waka-san carelessly says this.

Waka: The "mystery" has always existed.

Sasamaru: The mystery?

Waka: Existing but not. Despite not existing, existing. Here is the established symbol of mystery, of deceit itself.

Waka: This is the "Iwato" that is said to be the {\i1}base of operations.{\i0} The "Busu-No-Daira" where it is said she {\i1}made him drink poisoned alcohol{\i0}. And also the "Ryukogahara" where the {\i1}final battle{\i0} supposedly took place.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: So, this place {\i1}won't become shadows.{\i0}

I don't understand well what she's saying.

Waka: Well, old geezer. Let's see it together.

The sound of her declaration jumps around, going across this "room."

Sasamaru: See?

Waka: Yes, exactly. See the state of this school. Let's see what everyone will do, build, and also lose.

Waka: I'll make you realize {\i1}if humans are endowed with kindness in any situation{\i0}, just as you said.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: I will show you this once more.

//subchapter
While Resisting and Intersecting
November 3 (Tuesday)
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

I won't be painted over.

Despite strongly being aware of this, I am now living {\i1}here.{\i0}

I don't know where {\i1}here{\i0} is, but the visual, audible, smell, tasting, and touch information have very strong values for humans.

And it is extremely difficult to oppose the finished giant swell called "world" with the tiny human's will.

Sasamaru: (What an irony.)

I once painted over that darkness with a fake white.
But to now resist in order to not be painted over...

The more time passes, the more the painted color hardens.

The more it hardens, the more the painted-over "base" becomes hidden, out of sight.

I'm forgetting more and more what was the "base."

Sasamaru: (I thought I should simply not forget that.)

Despite this, I honestly don't know where my heart is.

And the more I lose my way, the more what I'm clinging to feels vague, dragging in the definite information called reality.

I'm drifting.

Sasamaru: (The "reality" sure is strong.)

A world with colors, sounds, smells, tastes, and touch is very heavy.

A will supported only by feelings easily sinks.

Even a decision under a strong will is blown away after someone whispers into one's ears, "it's your imagination."

Sasamaru: (Like hell I'll lose!)

Even so...

...I have in this chest feelings strong enough to resist it.

"Feelings strong enough to resist it." I'm confident in this.

Sasamaru: (So, it's all right.)

Look at the world here and now while clearly holding onto yourself.

Hiyo: Good morning, honey.

Look, you're standing straight, aren't you?

Sasamaru: Good morning.

Smile, me.

With this, the morning will start.

There has been a curious rumor whispered at the school lately.

"I'm kinda in a bad shape recently."
"The ones around seem strange."

Simply put, it's a "discomfort."

It's the usual time.
And our strange relationship, meeting without arranging beforehand.

Sasamaru: Hey, Waka-san.

I ask while handing over the milk tea.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: It's about what you said in the student council room.

Waka: Yes.

Sasamaru: Was that, perhaps...

While thinking about why this time exists, and what the meaning of this time is...

Sasamaru: Are you perhaps inviting me to the student council?

Waka: Huh?

This thought is instantly blown away by the face Waka-san makes.

Huh? What's with that face?

At that time, she said "the state of this school" and "what everyone will do." Doesn't this mean that the student council is working behind the scenes and supporting us?

And she said "let's see" it. I was sure she was inviting me.

Waka: ...

For a while, Waka-san makes an expression of astonishment at my words.

Wow, I'm feeling like I said something very embarrassing.

Waka: I already said it. You are purely an artist. You do not need to worry about the student council's activities.

Waka: Just sacrifice yourself to create your work. With this, the student council has a reason to exist. I won't ever invite an artist to the student council.

I-is that so.
So, it was my misunderstanding.
Wow, I'm so embarrassed.

Sasamaru: Then, what did you mean?

Waka: Exactly as I said.

But it's because I took it as you said that I interpreted it like that.

Waka: I'll make you realize {\i1}if humans are endowed with kindness in any situation{\i0}, just as you said.

Waka: I will show you this once more.

...I don't get it.

"In any situation"?

I wonder if it means "if we students can persist with our creative urge in any situation."

And also, "to show."
And "once more."

Sasamaru: (Hmm?)

As someone who was exposed to the student council's Waka-san's enthusiasm the other day, this is the only way I can interpret her words.

...Huh?

Sasamaru: But, Waka-san. The student council is chosen among the students, right?

I notice a sudden question.

Waka: Why do you think so?

Sasamaru: Why? Because it's the "student council."

Despite this, you're treating us students as artists.
And "an artist does not need to worry about the student council activities." Then, how do you replenish the members?

If students = artists, the students wouldn't be suitable for student council members.

Thinking about it, we don't know about the process of recruiting the student council members.

There doesn't seem to be elections, so, there's no candidacy nor recommendation, but...
I guess that this part is nurturing the "mysterious student council" image.

Sasamaru: If you don't choose from the students, how do you recruit the student council members?

Waka: You do not need to know.

This again.

I won't misunderstand it because I already know why she's saying that, but...

Waka: I will clearly say it once more. You are trash, scum, and a worthless human.

Sasamaru: Okay.

Waka: No, wait. You are trash, scum, and a worthless human, but you're an artist.

Sasamaru: Did you mistake on purpose just now?

Waka: I am approaching you artists as the student council. So, it's impossible to invite you to the student council.

I am most grateful for her tone of emphasizing "artist," but this means she's declaring that "the student council members do not come from the students."

I can't help but tilt my head with "despite being the student council," but I guess it's useless to keep asking.

Sasamaru: Then, another matter.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: You took me to the student council room that no one knows about. What did you want to show me?

Waka: You will soon know. It has already started.

Sasamaru: It has started?

The Ayanashisai has just ended. I wonder if the next event from the student council will start.

Waka: It's simply hard to notice. You cannot notice unless you strain your eyes, carefully listen, and attentively observe. It will take some time for self-awareness.

Sasamaru: Hmm.

"Self-awareness."
I feel it's serious when Waka-san says it.

I wonder if it's the "self-awareness as a student from this school."

Waka: It's {\i1}simply tracing it once more.{\i0} After a while, everyone will gather at the gymnasium. It will be easier to understand then.

Sasamaru: Ah...then, should I wait for that?

Waka: Yes. However, watch as a bystander this time.

Sasamaru: A bystander?

Waka: I said, {\i1}'I will show you.'{\i0} You will not participate this time. You will remain as an observer.

So, different from the Ayanashisai, I won't participate as a student?

Sasamaru: Got it...but may I ask one thing, Waka-san?

Waka: What is it?

Sasamaru: Why me?

After I let out this question, Waka-san narrows her eyes.

Waka: Because you say stupid things.

What does she mean?

Waka: Now I want to ask. Why did you think I was inviting you to the student council?

Sasamaru: Aah, because you said "the state of this school" and "what everyone will do."

Waka: So?

Sasamaru: I was sure you were talking about the student council's stance: to watch over what the students will do in the school.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Huh? Waka-san?

Waka: Heh heh...haha, hahaha!

After behaving as though she heard something unexpected, Waka-san changes completely and bursts into a loud laugh.

Waka: Yes, yes. You're correct. "To watch over." Hahaha.

Sasamaru: Did I say something funny?

It's so unexpected that I get surprised instead.

Waka: No. It's a perfectly fitting phrase. I simply thought that the student council activities are exactly as you said. Hehe...haha.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Well then, "let's watch over." What everyone will do, build, and also lose. Together with you.

Sasamaru: Waka-sa...

Waka: Hey, old geezer. Let's watch over the future of the kindness.

This again.
Waka-san said that once before.

Sasamaru: ...You're fussing over that.

Originally, "kindness" isn't something to speak out loud.

It would be different if it were a topic that must be spoken out loud to be true, but...
if possible, I want to avoid speaking about it.

Waka: Yes, of course I fuss over that. More than anyone and more than anything.

How do I say...
no, there's nothing to ponder.

Sasamaru: You're so diligent.

Waka: Diligent?

This isn't quite right.

It's not wrong, but this isn't what I'm talking about. If I had to choose...

Sasamaru: No. Waka-san, you're...

Yes, it's this.

Sasamaru: Waka-san, you're kind.

Waka: I am?

Again, she makes a face of "now that's unexpected."

Sasamaru: Yeah. Waka-san, you're "splendidly kind."

Waka: On top of not understanding, that's even a curious phrasing.

Sasamaru: Sorry. I just thought that your kindness is prone to be misunderstood.

Waka: Prone to be misunderstood?

Sasamaru: Hmmm...I mean that you're very kind, Waka-san.

Depending on the person, you might take that as "diligent" or "too serious," but...
I think this is her kindness.

Waka: What are you talking about? They often say I'm "cold" and "businesslike." No one ever called me like that.

Sasamaru: I'll say it then. Waka-san, you're kind.

Yes.
Originally, you shouldn't say it out loud.

But you may say when you must.
...No.

You should say when you must.

Waka: Ridiculous.

For example, in a time like this.

Sasamaru: Waka-san, you're always looking at the full picture.

Waka: Hmm.

Sasamaru: I think that this is prone to be misunderstood.

Waka: What do you...mean?

Almost perplexed, Waka-san asks back.

Sasamaru: I mean that people with a wide perspective are prone to be misunderstood by people with a narrow one. Though, this is a rough way of saying it.

Waka: Perspective?

Sasamaru: Yeah. You have a wide perspective. This might be an exaggerated way of saying, but you're always looking at things from the perspective of "the whole school."

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: It's a bit different from narrow-mindedness, but perspective is...

I make a gesture with both my hands with their fingers stretched and advancing forward from both sides of my face.

Sasamaru: How do I say...looking only ahead and not looking at the full picture. Yes, like a narrow perspective.

Sasamaru: These people are prone to misunderstand those looking at the full picture. They are interested only in what's in front, so, they are unable to notice the intention of people who keep balance by looking at the full picture.

Sasamaru: For example, it's easier to understand in an organization. All organizations, whether they're a school or a company, they need people who take an extensive view every time in order to function.

Sasamaru: All these important positions are always looking at things as their responsibilities allow. They can't support a single person and throw off the whole balance, so, they always think as a "team."

Sasamaru: Meanwhile, they cannot look at things from each individual's perspective, so, they're often seen by people with narrow perspective as "cold" and "rigid." They often reject ideas that are just individual opinions.

Sasamaru: The team leader's subordinates can't realize his intentions, and this team leader too might not realize the manager's intentions. And this manager, the general manager's. And this general manager, the one above him. And the president looking at the whole corporation.

Sasamaru: And in this, I think it's easy for quarrels to happen. Conversely, I think those who can quickly notice and follow these intentions are "manager candidates."

Sasamaru: In short, it's the difference between "people who can be left alone and work" and "people who can't do anything without instructions."

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Although, there's no persuasiveness if someone without working experience like me says it.

Waka: So, that's just a theory.

Sasamaru: Well, it is a theory. But as I've said before, even the school has to take this into consideration to function as an organization.

Sasamaru: So, even in a "friendly group," someone in a position of leader naturally appears.

Kashi Harutsuge.

Sasamaru: I've always been thankful for such a person. I cannot ever say that I understand her worries, but...I know it a little.

I want to think that I understand it a little.

Waka: Do you too have a boss?

Sasamaru: Yeah. A boss...well, it feels more like a superior officer. But I do have. My commandant.

Sasamaru: I respect my commandant and believe in her. So, if she says, "do it," I'll do it regardless of what it is.

Waka: So, you believe in the judgment and orders of this commandant.

Sasamaru: Yeah. I'm a private who cannot ever become a commandant, no matter how hard I try. I believe in her. Anything the commandant says is correct.

Waka: Right. However, how is that related to kindness?

Sasamaru: It is related. The commandant is always acting "for the sake of everyone." Thinking things "for the sake of everyone."

Sasamaru: For this reason, there are times when she cannot take sides with each single individual, but...she firmly endures and always looks at "everyone."

Sasamaru: For this reason, I'm sure there are many times when she must pin down her feelings.

Waka: You say that's the commandant's kindness?

Sasamaru: Yeah, she's kind. Kind from the bottom of her heart. Always, more than anyone.

Waka: When you say that, it's like you always say "more than anyone."

Sasamaru: Sorry. I can't quite decide on the number one.

So, everyone is number one.

Harutsuge, Araragi, and Hiyo.
And, of course, Waka-san too.

Waka: However, you're not included in this. You're just a "people pleaser."

Sasamaru: I know.

Waka: Hmpf. Your way of speaking, as if it was your true feelings, irritates me.

But I spoke nothing more than the truth. What does she want from me?

Waka: But why do you think so?

Sasamaru: "Why"? Because I'm one of the narrow-perspective ones. I know very well the greatness of people who are always looking at the big picture.

And I'm always learning.

Sasamaru: Well, in my case, I'm just narrow-minded.

Waka: Sure.

Sasamaru: So, I think this is something very amazing and also very kind. Far more than a mere superficial "kind." And far more than people showing an easy-to-understand kindness.

Sasamaru: Waka-san, I think your kindness is such a...

Waka: Stop it!!

A sudden scream.

A bitter rejection, as if I had handed over something she must never take.

Sasamaru: ...Waka-san?

She is glaring at me.

Hostility.
No, it's different.

She is trembling.

Sasamaru: Waka...san?

As though she was freezing with cold...

...she is trembling.

//subchapter
Confession
November 4 (Wednesday)
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,

And thus, my usual every day is passing.

...Usual.
My usual.

A simple usual.
A simple usual, just submitting and naturally wasting time.

This is how it should be, but I have this sensation, as if the unusual had slipped inside the usual.

Sasamaru: (As I thought...)

It's something I was vaguely feeling for a while, but, in my present situation, it's similar to a certain kind of desire people tend to have.

It is...

Sasamaru: People often think, "if only I could return to those days," right?

Hiyo: Eh?

I throw these words at Hiyo, who's walking beside me.

Sasamaru: For example, let's say there's a mistake you made in the past. Like, thinking, "I want to return to that time and redo it."

Hiyo: Ah...yes, you're right.

Sasamaru: It's not just that. How do I say...I can't find the right words. For example, let's say there was a period you weren't agreeing with...or not satisfied with, or "not that interesting" for you.

Sasamaru: When you look back to this period, you think, "if I could return to those days, I might have lived a different life."

This often happens...
apparently.

Hiyo: Yes.

My present situation is exactly like this.

I'm in a "past which I already passed through once."

It might be a misunderstanding. It might be a wrong impression, but this is the only way I can think of.

Because...

...my feelings for Hiyo, who's walking beside me like this, are clearly different from before.

Sasamaru: (...)

There is a question that raises my head.

Sasamaru: (What is...Hiyo thinking?)

Hiyo: I...love you...ho...ney...

Memories related to an event inside my head are dragged out.

It's a reminded image, as if it was the structure of a dragged-out memory.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing.

My chest throbs like I wouldn't expect.

Sasamaru: And, if this would really come true, you would be happy, right?

Hiyo: I wonder if there are many who think so.

Sasamaru: What do you think?

Hiyo: I...

Hiyo is at a loss for words.

For a short while, she looks as if she's thinking about how to answer, but...

Hiyo: I don't think so.

Eventually, she speaks out a flat denial.

Sasamaru: Okay.

I'm not asking for a reason.

I'm sure there's a smile on my lips.

Because...

Hiyo: Would you be happy, honey?

Sasamaru: I? I...

Araragi: Maybe Hiyo-chan doesn't think so?

I'm chatting with Araragi in the classroom. And our topic becomes the one I talked about with Hiyo a while ago.

And this is the first thing Araragi speaks after listening to it.

Sasamaru: Why?

After her immediate reply, I ask this.

By coincidence, Hiyo and Harutsuge aren't here.

Araragi: Don't you say that when you're not enjoying the "now"?

Sasamaru: Which means, Hiyo is enjoying the now?

Araragi: That's not it. Sometimes you're always engrossed. Maybe that's why she never thought of it that way.

Sasamaru: ?

Araragi: Hey, when you're so absorbed in something, you don't think much if it's fun or harsh, right? You think that when you have calmed down. That's why you look back on the past.

Sasamaru: Ah...well, I think so.

I get it.
Then, it's really...

Araragi: And you, Sasamaru-chan? Do you think, "if I could return to those days"?

Sasamaru: I? I...

It's really...
the same.

Sasamaru: I don't.

I too don't think of "wanting to return to the past."

Araragi: Good, good.

After hearing my answer, Araragi makes a happy face.

That's right.

I keep making mistakes, and I'm a "still behind" worthless man, but still, there's something I have piled up in the days so far.

It's a mere pebble, but I can brag that I've been piling them up one by one.

This mountain of pebbles representing "my present self" is still small and doesn't have enough height, but...
it's not a useless effort. This mountain won't crumble.
No one can destroy it.

As long as I don't break down, this mountain will never crumble.

I have a reason that I must protect it.

This is not pride alone.
Much less a trifling reason like "I too have gone through my hardships."

There's something I will never yield.

So, I'll keep being myself.

And "for me to keep being myself" means to desperately keep protecting this mountain.

To keep protecting it even if I have to cling to it.

{\i1}That's why...{\i0}

That's why this present situation is very, very unpleasant to me.

This situation, as if only the time had turned back.

There are fragments in my memory, and it's extremely unclear to tell which parts "I have experienced."

On top of it, there's no concrete proof to clearly state that this "is not a déjà vu" or "it's not a wrong impression," but...

Sasamaru: (There are no lies in these feelings for Hiyo.)

Perhaps this is nothing but resistance based on only this. But still, I want to protect it even if I have to cling to it.

So, it's very unpleasant.
Aah, it's unpleasant.

This every day, when the days past are "as if they were undone."

I don't know what happened, but...

...I feel it's violently unpleasant that I'm here at this time.

Sasamaru: (I made up my mind.)

I finally resolve myself.

Why am I standing still?

If my feelings are clear, just plunge forward.

What I have to do should have been decided the moment I made this clear.

Sasamaru: (Do not repeat it.)

Am I here now for what?

How do I interpret the fact "I'm here now for what?"

Sasamaru: (It's to start over.)

To start over means "to never again repeat the same mistake."

It's unpleasant. 
It's unpleasant, but there's nothing I can do about what has already {\i1}turned back.{\i0}

So, think more positively.
Do not stand still.
Focus on what's in front of you.

If I'm really repeating the same time again, haven't I grown a bit last time?

In this repeating time, will I myself repeat the same actions?

Will I {\i1}trace{\i0} the same time like an idiot?

There's nothing more pathetic than this, is there!?

Those days, when I lived the same time.

"At that time, what was I thinking?"
I think this over.

Sasamaru: (Yes, repaying the favor.)

I was thinking of how to repay the favor to Hiyo, whom I'm always indebted to.

Sasamaru: (...So, the timing that I'm thinking this is the same too.)

I make a bitter laugh at this situation, but I won't repeat the same events.

Now, what I must do...
is similar but different.

Sasamaru: (It's "absolutely" different!!)

At this moment, I start running as if I was flicked.

Sasamaru: Hiyo!!

A splendid adult would laugh with "aah, he's so immature."

I myself think I'm simple.

But I will no longer mistake the "now."

All the more if the "now" is not really the "now" for me.

"It's unpleasant."
"Stop screwing with me."
If I clearly know my stance toward this situation...

...and if I clearly know the whereabouts of these feelings in my chest...

...then there's only one thing to do.

Hiyo: Yes?

The girl who always turns around to my words with a smile.

Since long, long ago, always supporting me from behind the scenes, the girl who kept taking an attitude as if she didn't mind it at all.

I'm sure she was supporting me even in places I didn't notice.

Sasamaru: ...Sorry.

But...

Hiyo: Eh?

This is not 'to repay the favor.'

Sasamaru: It's no longer to repay the favor.

Hiyo: Repay...the favor?

Well, let's change this false "now."

How can I be so rude to her with something like 'repaying the favor'?

These are my feelings.

I finally realize the "now" that is not the "now."
And the feelings that keep scorching my chest, even in this similar "now."

Flickering memories.

I can't clearly recall everything, but there's a single distinct event.

I made this girl confess first.

Sasamaru: (I won't mistake anymore.)

Isn't that right?
Right?

Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

I know how much you were worried sick for me.

Even in my hazy memories, your thoughtfulness is piling up, piling up so much that I cannot forget about it.

Sasamaru: (Our elder sister.)

And also...

Araragi.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: Long ago, those eyes were looking at Araragi-kun, weren't they?

The relevant thoughts are dragging out the memories.

My stance to oppose this phenomenon isn't wavering. I immediately recognize it as "an event from the past."

Sasamaru: (Our sun.)

She is surely, my first love.

//text on screen
Hey,

//text on screen
In that hand...

//text on screen
is what you wanted in it?

//sound only
Please...please, notice her feelings!

My first love.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes.

Well, strengthen your resolve.

Your unshakable resolve.

This...
is...
my...
"confession."

Sasamaru: I like you.

Straightforwardly...

...throwing my feelings onto Hiyo.

I don't need beautiful words.

I can't ever do something skillful like that.

So, as the full-fledged me...

...I'll tell her my sincerity.

Hiyo: ...

I once more tell it to Hiyo, who is spacing out.

Sasamaru: I like you.

Hiyo: Ho...hone...

Sasamaru: I'll say it as many times as you want. I like you. I like you.

Hiyo: ...

What is very fast accumulating in the eyes of the dazed Hiyo...

Hiyo: Ah...

...changes her voice into a painful sigh, almost drying her throat.

It's not enough.

It's still not enough to the feelings she showed, to the feelings she kept showing.

Sasamaru: I like you.

It won't ever be enough.

Sasamaru: I like you!

It's still not, still not, still not enough.

Sasamaru: I love you!!

Aah, jeez, how embarrassing.
Goddammit!

Hiyo: Uh...ah...

Sasamaru: I love youuuuuuuuu!!

Awkward, very unshapely, simply exposing my disgraceful behavior...

...almost like a howl, my confession.

Hiyo, almost crumbling down...

...is crying.

"Waah, waah," crying.

Hiyo: Waah...waaaaahhh...

Sasamaru: Sorry, for the forced way of speaking.

Hiyo: No...I'm...hap...happ...

Hiyo, with teary eyes and inadequate words.

And while I'm being forceful, one more.

I tightly hold Hiyo.

Hiyo: ah...

Sasamaru: Thanks for everything.

Clever words aren't coming up.

Sasamaru: For everything, everything, really everything, thanks.

A simple storm of gratitude, stark naked and bare.

Sasamaru: I like you, Hiyo.

No matter how much I'm ridiculed with, "are those the only words you know?"...

Sasamaru: I love you, Kumigami Hiyo.

Without any falsehood, my true feelings.

Hiyo: I...I too...

As if answering these feelings, the tears now take shape.

Hiyo: I...I like...you too!

I'm being filled by these words, these shapes.

Hiyo: I...love you too!

Aah.

I would never have thought the feelings of liking someone would be so strong.

That's right.

I am now earnestly in love.

Before I knew it, Araragi had disappeared from here.

Sasamaru: ...

I'm sure the word 'sorry' is arrogance.

And also, Harutsuge has disappeared too.

Sasamaru: (Sorry, Harutsuge.)

Unnoticed, she is supporting me.

Hiyo, Araragi, Harutsuge, and I.

The orchid, the bamboo, the chrysanthemum, and the plum blossom.

We are the "Four Noble Ones."

I'm sure our world is going around like this.

She doesn't know why she came here.

She simply is here out of a sudden.

If Suu Sasamaru's memories are certain as "something that already happened," then this is the "place she once allowed him."

Araragi: ...

She is astonished, in blank amazement.
And she shouldn't have this memory.

Is this merely a coincidence?

For some reason, she hears the sound of cheers.

There is a person approaching.

It's the girl who has always watched over him and her.

She too has no memory of how Sasamaru attained his conviction.

Harutsuge: ...

After sighing once, Harutsuge approaches Araragi.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: You can't stand Sasamaru-kun?

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: You're thinking, "why did he say that in front of everyone?" "Why did he say that in front of me?"

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun.

Araragi: ...It's fine.

What reaches her is a hoarse voice.

Because the tip of her nose is deep red.
A hoarse voice.

Araragi: It's fine...like that.

Harutsuge: Of course.

Enveloping her, Harutsuge tightly holds Araragi.

Harutsuge: He thought in his own way. I'm sure he thought with all he could. Enough to wear him out.

Harutsuge: He did that with all this in mind. The Sasamaru-kun we know is such a man.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: But...he had grown up before we noticed. He had grown much, very much.

Araragi: ...

Harutsuge: He sure is a good man. Don't you think so, Araragi-kun?

Araragi: ...It's fine.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Araragi: It's fine. It's fine like that.

Harutsuge: Yes.

Araragi: It's...fine...it's fine...like that.

Harutsuge: Yes, yes.

Araragi: Waah...waaaah.

Enveloped by Harutsuge's warmth, Araragi loudly cries.

Araragi: It's fineee. It's fine like thaaat.

Harutsuge: Yes, yes.

Harutsuge is caressing Araragi's head.

Several, several times. She keeps caressing every time Araragi raises her voice.

This is what Harutsuge has always been doing to everyone.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan...knew...knew my...feelings.

That's why she can say.

Because it's Harutsuge, she can say it.

She can say even her complaints.

Harutsuge: I guess so.

A seemingly cold conduct, but she's in fact aware of everything.

This is built on trust, different from the justification called "because it's Harutsuge."

Araragi: It was...unexpected...and...so sudden.

Harutsuge: Yes.

Araragi: I got...a bit...just a little...surprised.

Harutsuge is sweetly holding Araragi, who speaks like this even in such a time.

Harutsuge: Maybe it wasn't sudden for him.

Araragi: E...eh?

Harutsuge: They say, "look carefully after spending three days without seeing a boy," but it really was...out of the blue. He, in his own way and at his own speed, grew and arrived at that confession.

Araragi: ...

Araragi: ...It's too fast. I can't catch up to that.

Harutsuge: You're right. I can no longer call him thickheaded. What a pity. It's really a pity.

Araragi: ...Harutsuge-chan, you don't seem disappointed at all.

After Araragi finally smiles with a chuckle, Harutsuge too shows a smile.

Harutsuge: That's not true.

They smile at each other.

Araragi and Harutsuge were always together.

That's why they know each other's feelings more than anyone.

And, more than anyone, they can throw their unreserved words at each other.

Araragi: Hey, Harutsuge-chan.

Harutsuge: What is it?

Araragi: May I cry...for real one more time?

For example, this.

Harutsuge: Forever too.

Araragi sobs convulsively in Harutsuge's chest.

For she cannot be her usual self in front of her dear ones unless she does this.

And because she knows this, Harutsuge keeps lending her chest.

She keeps lending, forever, as much as needed.

Hiyo: It's like a dream.

After that...

...these are the first words Hiyo mutters in my chest.

I'm happy.
So happy I'm trembling.

Because the words "it's like a dream" are words that the usual Hiyo would never say.
Because she has been living while denying a perception that might be taken as mere child's play.

Maybe it's a bit different from 'denying'.

As though she wanted to allow it but couldn't.
As though she ended up denying it because this perceived idea isn't coming out from inside her.

Hiyo is the one feeling this dilemma the most.

That's why I'm happy.

Those might have been words said casually, but I'm happy exactly because it was "casually."

I'm able to feel Hiyo a bit closer.

Because, there is a reason for Hiyo to be feeling this dilemma.

And I'm finally able to accept this reason.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

I strongly hold her just one more time.

Hiyo: ah...

I'm happy with her, burying her face in my chest without resisting and deep red up to the ears.

Then, finally...

...I'm entranced by the simple fact I told her my feelings.

Sasamaru: (...Good.)

After this moment came, I'm finally able to think that "I'm happy."

Hiyo: May I...May I be happy this much?

The moment Hiyo too says this...

...the stopped time starts moving.

Now, this moment is...

...this instant is the "now" moment for me.

And at the same time, it is the moment that is changing all that was "now" so far into "past."

Sasamaru: (So, it really existed.)

I again believe it was really the past.

Like broken glass, it was nothing more than fragments, but still shining bright like glass.

And what I gathered and put together from it is my past that "has been undone."

Sasamaru: (Like hell I'll let it "be undone.")

It's all my past, including the happy, the sad, what went well, and what didn't.

I won't let go even if I have to cling to it.

Sasamaru: (But why did this phenomenon happen?)

I feel the hint to this lies there.

Sasamaru: Oops?

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Ah, sorry. Err...

Since I started from that place, the only thing stirring me up is {\i1}that{\i0}, which I'm still unable to understand.

Waka-san.

For some reason, the feeling of "I have to stop her" stirred me up.

If this feeling that I don't know where it came from was "inherited from the past"...

If its cause is in a past event that I still can't remember and haven't collected yet...

Sasamaru: (...This might be possible.)

Because Waka-san isn't among the fragments I've been remembering so far.

As if an even stronger force was at work, Waka-san is the only one not in these fragments.

Is this a coincidence?

Sure, I've spent my school life until now without much contact with Waka-san, but...

Sasamaru: (It's worth checking it out.)

If there is a reason for this...

If there is...

Sasamaru: That's right, Hiyo. May I ask something?

Hiyo: Yes?

Hiyo might know about it.

Sasamaru: Harutsuge is very kind, isn't she?

The moment I ask, Hiyo stares in wonder.

Hiyo: Err...

Perhaps because she's unable to tell my intention, Hiyo makes a perplexed expression for one moment.

Sasamaru: Sorry. I was too abrupt, wasn't I?

The one who guesses my intention faster than anyone and goes along with me: Hiyo.

Because she's like this, I must be much, much, much, much more considerate of her.

Otherwise she will be considerate of me.

I must warn myself, someone abrupt and simply energetic.

Sasamaru: Well, I know this is a very vague topic.

Hiyo: Err...

Hiyo seems a bit at a loss, but...

Hiyo: Yes, Harutsuge-san is kind. After all, she's our dear elder sister.

...perhaps relieved by my phrase, she replies with truly honest words.

Sasamaru: Right?

But this is subjective.

Sasamaru: But it's a fact she's prone to be misunderstood, isn't it?

Harutsuge is often misunderstood due to her behavior.

So, Harutsuge's kindness is hard to identify unless you have a close relationship with her.

She doesn't openly display this, and she doesn't take any suggestive actions toward others like "I want you to think this" or "I want you to see it as such."

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san is very manly.

Ah, yes. Those words really fit to a T.

Hiyo: Harutsuge-san is simply "sticking to what she thinks is correct." She has never been worried about what others might think.

That's our Hiyo. She perfectly understands her.

Then, when asked if Waka-san too is manly...
I think she's not.

I simply feel she's similar to Harutsuge in how she perceives things and in her relationship with others due to her position.

Hiyo: And, what about Harutsuge-san?

Sasamaru: Well, it's not about Harutsuge.

I summarize my conversation with Waka-san and tell it to Hiyo.

Hiyo: ...I understand.

Almost worried, Hiyo mutters this.

Hiyo: Waka-san is...a mysterious individual.

She's somewhat backing me up, or maybe not.

Hiyo: And, honey. You want Waka-san to recognize your kind side, correct?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Ah, was I mistaken?

Sasamaru: Ah...

The dumbfounded one is me.

I first realize this after Hiyo points it out.
Come to think of it, what did I want to do?

Yes, there's a feeling stirring me up, and I think it's somehow related to the present situation.

But why did I...

Sasamaru: (That's right.)

So, I wanted her to recognize me.

Sasamaru: That's...right. Yes, you're right.

Sasamaru: Waka-san appears...not exactly modest. She appears to be denying "kindness" itself.

Hiyo: I understand.

There was this feeling, built on top of an urge called "I must stop her."
So, this is what it was.

Sasamaru: (Now she got me.)

Hiyo is beside me.
Hiyo is there for me.

Just this makes me lively for some reason.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you're close friends with Waka-san, so, I thought you'd have some good insights about this.

Hiyo: Hehe, thank you very much. But I'm not the only close friend of Waka-san.

Hiyo's expression becomes slightly troubled mid-sentence.

Hiyo: A...Araragi-san is close friends with her, too.

Sasamaru: ...

No, Hiyo.
There's no need for you to make a troubled expression.

It is I who must shoulder that.

I'm here with this determination.

But I guess I mustn't say this to Hiyo.

Sasamaru: You're right. She's close friends with Araragi, too.

So, I must not make her feel hesitant in calling her dear friend's name.

For one moment, my lips are about to move with difficulty, but, even forcefully, I smoothly speak out her name.

In order to naturally display the natural act of speaking a friend's name.

It's a saving grace that Hiyo seems just a little bit relieved for one moment.

Hiyo: Yes. Araragi-san appears to be considerably liked by Waka-san.

I think that Hiyo too.

Sasamaru: After all, she was called "father."

I digress due to my wish of this becoming natural.

Hiyo: And she also calls Harutsuge-san a "hero."

And a surprising statement comes back.

Sasamaru: Eh? She gave a nickname to Harutsuge, too?

Hiyo: Yes. They don't have many opportunities to talk, so, you don't hear it very often. But she suddenly started calling her that at the end of September.

I didn't know that.
Or rather, what does Waka-san want to do?

I was sure she was building the Waka Family here in the school, but what's "hero" about?

In the first place, she's not the boss of the family. She's in the child's position for some reason.

Sasamaru: But why is Harutsuge a "hero"?

Hiyo: I have no idea. I too don't know the origin of Araragi-san's "father"...ahem, of Araragi-san's nickname.

Wait, you don't have to be considerate about that.
I know it.
I know very well that reason.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, you're the "big sis."

Well, I'm talking about {\i1}that.{\i0}
How do I say...maybe I should think of this like a sapphic-ish mood.

Hiyo: At first, I had a completely different nickname, though.

Sasamaru: Eh? Really?

Hiyo: Ah, well...yes, err...

Please stop with that "Ah, it slipped. But I can't lie. Yes, it's true."

It's too cute.

Sasamaru: ...

I wonder what she was called.
I start imagining it, but only lame words are coming up, so, I stop delving further into it.

Sasamaru: Well, leaving that aside.

After confirming that Hiyo is relieved, I continue.

Sasamaru: Hiyo, what do you think "kindness" is?

I think I'm asking something extremely vague.
But I have expectations of "maybe Hiyo might know."

Hiyo: I think...kindness is something conveyed to others.

Sasamaru: Conveyed...to others?

Hiyo: For example, let's say we are passing packages to each other. I will pass it carefully. Then, the next person might pass it carefully to me.

Hiyo: If I pass it roughly, the next person might pass it roughly to me.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: Maybe it is something passed around like this. I'm sorry. I didn't express it very well, did I?

Sasamaru: Ah, well...

I'm involuntarily taken aback.

Because it's kinda...

Sasamaru: Err...summing up, your dedication changes the feelings of the one receiving it. So, this person will change the feelings of the next person he is passing to. Is this what you mean?

Hiyo: Yes.

Hiyo makes a happy smile.

Hiyo: I think this is what "kindness" is.

Hiyo: People, people, and more people exist. I think this is why the world is created, regardless of its size.

Hiyo: Even if it's a world of two, a world of three, of ten, of a hundred, or of a thousand.

Hiyo: And among these countless worlds, in each one of these...maybe something like "kindness" is going around in them.

Hiyo: Let's treasure our feelings for one another. Let's treasure our relationships. In a world where many people keep this in mind, I think it will naturally become a splendid world.

Hiyo: Maybe this is how the "ambiance" is created.

Sasamaru: The ambiance inside...each of these worlds?

Hiyo: Yes.

By touching a kind world, humans naturally become kind.

I think that there's meaning in a relationship of treasuring others.

So...

Sasamaru: Then...what about worlds not like that?

Despite feeling a wavering heart in Hiyo's feelings, the thorn stuck in my throat becomes words.

Sasamaru: There are worlds not like that...worlds that can't be like that, right?

Hiyo: If the worlds are connected...

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: Just like people, worlds too are passing packages to each other. These can be "the friendly group of so-and-so" and the "friendly group of so-and-so." And also...the "red team" and "blue team."

Sasamaru: Ah.

Hiyo: So, they're the same.

Sasamaru: ...Got it.

Hiyo: Yes. And I think that...this is how "this world exists."

The "this world" she speaks of must really be a single one composed of all of them.

Sasamaru: And like that, the "world"...the group's ambiance is created.

Hiyo: Yes.

She's dazzling.

Hiyo is very dazzling.

She is almost like...

Sasamaru: ...

At this moment, something skims.

Something grazes deep in my chest.

Sasamaru: Then...Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasamaru: Is that true even when {\i1}being kind to someone brings pain?{\i0}

Hiyo: Eh?

Huh?

Hiyo: That's a very relentless observation.

Sasamaru: Ah, well...

What...am I saying?

Hiyo: But it's all right, honey.

But Hiyo sweetly smiles.

Hiyo: Humans will not lose to that. That's the reason we support each other.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Hehe.

And...
after speaking this, Hiyo makes an awkward smile, as if she was laughing at herself.

Sasamaru: Hiyo?

Hiyo: This is what a person who had a strong influence on myself taught me.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Hiyo: What I learned from this person's everyday actions...is what I spoke just now.

Sasamaru: A person who...had a strong influence on you?

Hiyo: Yes. A person I'll never be on par with.

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: I spoke what I learned from this person with my own words, but there's also the words this person spoke.

Sasamaru: Is that...perhaps...

Hiyo: "I think the existence of a leader is important."

Hiyo: "A central personage. I think the group's ambiance too changes considerably depending on this person's personality and way of thinking."

Sasamaru: ...

Hiyo: "And that's why I'm sooo happy to be able to be here."

Sasamaru: H...here?

Hiyo: Yes. {\i1}Here.{\i0}

I...
knew it.

Somehow, Hiyo overlapped.

Overlapped with Araragi.

Hiyo: The person who said this, the person I'll never be on par with. Who do you think it is?

Sasamaru: Hiyo...what...

Hiyo: And who do you think this person thought was the leader?

Sasamaru: Hi...yo...

I get it, so, that's...

...the shape of her feelings for Araragi.

Hiyo: May I really...stay {\i1}here?{\i0}

I tightly hold Hiyo.

Strongly, strongly holding her.

Sasamaru: Sure! Sure you can!

Hiyo: But...Arara...

Sasamaru: You can!!

Hiyo: I...cannot ever...compare to...Araragi-san.

Sasamaru: Please stay {\i1}here!{\i0} Hiyo!!

Hiyo: ...You're fine...with me?

Sasamaru: It must be you! Hiyo!!

Bomp.

Together with Hiyo, burying her face in my chest...

...I think I'm pathetic for this, but...

...I too cry.

Sasamaru: (Kindness conveys to people...eh.)

Like handing over the baton.

The runner passes the baton together with the feelings to the next runner, and this runner again passes the baton to the next one.

And in the completed world, there's no 'last runner.'

Aah...
Then...

I think maybe Waka-san's kindness too is conveyed like this.

Sasamaru: (I'll go tell her.)

This is connected to my question regarding this situation.

I'm sure it's connected.

Sasamaru: Sorry, Hiyo. I'll leave for a bit.

We have calmed down.

Despite wanting to feel forever the pleasantness of sitting down and cuddling, I stand up.

Hiyo: Ah...

After making a disappointed face just a little, Hiyo...

Hiyo: Yes. Have a safe trip, honey.

She sees me off, exactly like a faithful wife.

Sasamaru: I'll be back soon!

Saying this, I start running.

At this time, I would never have thought.

I would never have thought that I wouldn't be able to return again.

Although I rushed out pressed by the course of events, it's this late.

Sasamaru: (Of course she isn't here.)

And obviously, there's no one in the connecting hallway.

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

Waka: Do you have business with me?

H-huh?

Sasamaru: H-how did I get in here?

Waka: Didn't you have business with me?

Sasamaru: Y-yeah.

Here is the "bare" student council room.

Sasamaru: ...

Despite not knowing how I came here, I know what I must do.

Sasamaru: Hey.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: About the chat from before.

I'll tell her.

"What is connected to it will become the answer to my question."

For some reason, I have feelings of conviction in this.

Now, this feeling is pushing my back far more than the inexplicable phenomenon happening with me.

In any case, I must tell her.

Sasamaru: Maybe everyone has noticed that you're actually a kind person, Waka-san.

Waka: Nonsense.

Sasamaru: But I haven't said, "you're kind," to my commandant.

Sasamaru: But I'm grateful from the bottom of my heart. I could say this a million times and it wouldn't be enough. Even if I say it another million times, it's still not enough.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: So, everyone really thinks you are...

Waka: Hah...hahahahaha.

Sasamaru: Waka-san?

Waka: Can you say that even after seeing this?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Sasamaru: What...is this...?

Waka: It's the image of every place in the school.

Sasamaru: Huh?

Eh...what are these, security cameras?

So, that was installed in the whole school?
But the moment I think this, it's overwritten by feelings of denial.

At this moment, my body trembles.

A shiver.
Something like a chill, crawling from my feet.

As though I was desperately clinging to common sense.
I notice myself like this, and...

Waka: Ooh, it's big sis.

Sasamaru: Eh.

After overreacting to Waka-san's words, I turn to that point, and...
the one there is really Hiyo.

Waka: Beautiful as always.

There is Hiyo, standing in front of the dormitory.

Like a faithful wife waiting for the return of her husband.

Sasamaru: Waka-san, are you...

But...this is...

This phenomenon happening in front of me now...

Waka: This time, I thought the situation would be "easier to understand" as a bystander, but I changed my mind after looking at your eyes.

Waka: {\i1}I'll have you return to the easy-to-understand situation.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh?

What...was that just now?

As if feeling like I was floating without actually floating.
Similarly, as if feeling like I "landed" without any change having occurred.

Sasamaru: (No.)

There isn't a single visible change, but there's a discomfort.

For example, as if a tiny dust not worth noticing casually entered my vision, and this dust appeared at a different place in my vision after I blinked.
A discomfort that "I don't know what changed."

I don't know, but I have the sensation that "it's different."

What happened?

Waka: It's starting.

But Waka-san ignores me and simply "declares."

There is a hazy light at each place of the cave.

All the images projected there are the morning scenery.

But the thick night's curtain was down until a moment ago.
With no time to feel surprised at the hectic situation changing, I see someone shouting at the reflected gymnasium.

He's eagerly raising his voice, "You all, pay attention!!"

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

He continues to shout.

He continues to shout toward the group rustling at the abrupt turmoil.

Sasamaru: (This is...huh?)

He continues to shout.

Yes.

He continues to shout, "It's an illness."

Sasamaru: An...illness?

Sasamaru: Ah...

Sasamaru: Ah...aaaahh...

Sasamaru: Aaaaaahhh!!

I remembered.

I remembered.
We...
We...
We...!!

Sasamaru: ...An...illness?

Yes, the "pain."

"To be kind to someone brings pain."

We were thrown into a maelstrom of a situation where this thing, that we can call the world's truth, had changed into a rule!!

Yes.

When you add heart "心" to the Japanese character of autumn "秋", it becomes sorrow "愁".

Sorrow "愁" means illness "病".

Sasamaru: This...is...

Then...
it will repeat?

Is that going to be repeated!?

Sasamaru: ...

My staggering legs make me fall on my rear.

Waka: What's wrong? It has just started. It's now that you'll realize.

Sasamaru: ...

Why are you making that face?
How can you keep making that face?

I look up to Waka-san as though I was seeing something unbelievable.

This supposedly familiar individual even appears to be like a visitor from a strange world.

Glaring at me, those eyes feel as if they weren't from this world.

Sasamaru: (Waka...san.)

Waka-san?

I can't remember.

With the shock just now, it appears I remembered most of the events, but Waka-san isn't in the memories I regained.

As if only the memories of her were completely left out.

There's still...
something.

There's something I haven't remembered.

Waka: Well, old geezer. Let's see it together.

Again.

The sound of her declaration jumps around, going across the room.

Waka: Let's see the state of the school, what everyone will do, build, and also lose.

Waka: I'll make you realize {\i1}if humans are endowed with kindness in any situation{\i0}, just as you said.

The sound jumping around is sharp, cutting me up.

Waka: I will show you once more.

Cutting me up while sneering, "experience that one more time."

//text on screen
Impatient Bystander

Then, I'm alone in the room.

In this room where I don't know how I entered, I also cannot leave.

In this room without a clock, where the border between day and night is uncertain, I can't feel the passage of time. I can only stay in this room.

So, if there's something I can do, it's...

...to simply look at the images projecting each area of the school.

I simply gaze at the days repeating the former events, as if tracing the TV drama happening there.

Waka: I will show you once more.

The words Waka-san declared permeate my body.

Sasamaru: (To think I would...experience that again.)

If there's one point different from that time...

...is that "I am not there."

While the situation is the same, I am missing there.
Just like before, slowly creeping up, the "illness" is slowly, slowly encroaching the school.

I am simply watching it.

I can only watch.

I am indeed nothing more than a "bystander."

I haven't seen Waka-san since then.

With the room's owner absent, this situation is the same as being made to watch a TV the owner left on.

Also, since this TV can't change channels, the contents of the broadcasting program are the worst ever.

Sometimes, Hiyo and the others are projected in this joke of a TV.

After the ruckus at the gymnasium, the school falls into panic.
It's right after being thrust with the fact of "we can't leave here" at the main gate.

Hiyo again is suspected with "isn't this her fault?"

Retracing everything, a situation is occurring sequentially.

Harutsuge is taking the part I played at that time, but...

Sasamaru: (I guess this world keeps going even without me.)

While including the contradiction—the single difference that "I'm not there"—history is repeating itself without a change.

If this continues, Hiyo will soon say, "it's my fault."

Then, we—the "Four Noble Ones" now without me—will choose the road of "to forget" for her sake and engrave the proof of this on the little fingers.

Even without me, the flow is unchanging.

Sasamaru: (...No, wait.)

Thinking about it, Hiyo was protecting me.

And I do remember..."why" she did it.
I must not ever again forget her feelings nor my feelings for her.

But I can't remember the other "why."

Why did Hiyo "need to protect me"?

Sasamaru: ...

I can't remember.

No, maybe "I don't know" it in the first place.

The memories are blurred. I don't know.

But thinking thoroughly about it...
the fact that "I'm not there" also means "Hiyo doesn't need to protect me."

Sasamaru: (Phew.)

Relief fills me now.

Or rather, isn't it better if I'm not there?

Today again, I watch the images simply shown.

Several days have passed since then.

I wonder when today is.

Originally, those days didn't have classes and the concept of time was unclear.

This is why I see the projected images and find it hard to grasp the passage of time.

Sasamaru: (I wonder...how everyone is doing.)

I wonder how they are feeling about me, who suddenly disappeared.

I wonder if they're worried or searching for me.

Sasamaru: (If I were in their place...)

I would search.
I would desperately search.

I won't doubt anymore.

I won't think, "the likes of me," and deprecate myself.

I'm sure they're looking for me.
They're earnestly looking for me.

Standing here, I remember when I was in the repentance room.

I went violent against the white team guys and the proper punishment was given.

I was inside that dark underground cell, accepting something natural.
But there was warmth there.

Hiyo, Araragi and Harutsuge were there for me.

Exactly as the light shining on that darkness that enveloped me.

Then, we won at the Ayanashisai, Onitake-sensei collapsed...
and eventually, things became the same as the image I'm now watching.

Then, Harutsuge said, "we need something as the basis of our every day," and...

Sasamaru: (The manual!!)

The moment I notice this, I jump to my feet.

Thre are the "school manual" and the "student council manual" in this school.

One had the effect of delaying the illness' progress.

Sasamaru: (Yes. The fact that I'm not there means that "they won't choose student council manual!")

If everyone is looking for me, will they worry about "basis of our every day"?

Even if they went to the library looking for the manual the same as that time...

...will they choose the "student council manual" just like that time?

The answer is no.

No one will ever choose that joke of a manual.

Our red team remained until the end in that situation because I chose the "student council manual" at that time.

Sasamaru: (Which means, Hiyo and the others will follow the "school manual" just like everyone did, and...)

My vision becomes pitch dark.

It's not true that "nothing will change because I disappeared."

My absence will hasten the disappearance of Hiyo and the others.

I wonder if the only thing I can do is to watch until everyone collapses.

To again see Hiyo collapse...

And eventually...

Sasamaru: (...!)

Are you kidding me?

Will I see that again?

Even if the circumstances are different, the end result won't change.

Will I be tortured again by that feeling of despair?

Sasamaru: Shit!

The welling-up indignation burns my entrails.

Waka: Are you watching?

Sasamaru: ...!

Waka: Are you watching? As a bystander?

Waka: Can you see? Is the real shape of these events reflected in your eyes?

Sasamaru: Waka-san!

With the light in her eyes stagnated with a gray color, the girl is looking down on me.

I draw close to her.

Sasamaru: What on earth are you!? Why are you showing me this!?

Waka: Why?

Waka-san's eyes have no hostility toward me nor anger. They're glaring at me, almost pinning me down.

As if there was a crevice there.

It is the gap of a cliff you'll never cross; so wide and deep you won't even think of jumping across.

Waka: Because this is the answer to your "question."

Sasamaru: "Question"?

Waka: Yes. Repeating events already passed. A repetition, simply tracing the events, excluding the fact that "you are there."

Waka: Everything is to thrust the truth—the answer—at you.

Sasamaru: Eh.

What...was that...
"memory"?

It's no longer unclear. I'm confident this is a "memory."

But, perhaps because I'm worked up, there's something like a mist, and I can't remember it well.

Sasamaru: (Remember it.)

Remember it once more.

In there is a clue you haven't grasped yet.

Waka: Because we are simply rotating inside a "ring."

A "ring"?
What...
"ring"?

No, the memory just now is more important.

Sasamaru: (I can't.)

The act of wishing for the faint memories to clear up is similar to trying to remember a dream right after waking up. The more you try to grasp it, the more it becomes unresponsive.

Sasamaru: (Shit!)

But I have results.

Sasamaru: (Waka-san hasn't noticed that I am "remembering.")

What meaning does this have?

I don't know if this will become a "weapon" to improve the situation, but there's no reason to tell her now.

Who on earth is she?

It's still unclear in what form she is related to this situation, but there's no doubt she's has me in the palm of her hand. This is an evident truth.

She knows everything and I know nothing.

So, I should keep something she doesn't know.

Waka: Well, old geezer. Let me ask you now.

Sasamaru: Ask what?

Waka: Why aren't you...why aren't you all remembering?

Sasamaru: Eh?

I gasp in shock.

So, my trump card is already among the items she's doubting.

But, you "all"?

Waka: Did you really want to forget about it? Did you want to pretend nothing happened? Did you want to turn a blind eye to it?

Sasamaru: ...

Really, the question is too vague.

It would be a feasible question if both parties were on equal terms, but I, with an overwhelming disadvantage, cannot come up with an answer.

And Waka-san should be aware of this.

...Wait, isn't it strange?

In this conversation, she's assuming that "I don't remember," but why is she asking "if I remember"?

Sasamaru: (Is she asking...something else?)

So...this is a question of matters that should be on equal terms?

But I cannot say this out loud.

Waka: It's that. That face.

The instant I think this, she brings it to light before I make it a secret.

And while making a sour expression, as if the disbelief had gotten stronger.

Waka: Big sis too made that face. When I bring up topics about those days, she always makes that face.

"Those days"?

So, she isn't pointing out a time that has already passed, like the one she's tracing now?

Waka: Is it a past you want to erase? You will run away again?

Waka: You have a face as if wanting to say, "I don't know anything." But "you are you." Just what can you erase?

What on earth does she mean?

Waka: Answer me, old geezer.

Sasamaru: I don't know what you are talking about.

Waka: Right.

Waka-san narrows her eyes.

Waka: Right, right. Hahaha, very well. Then, let me tell you an old story.

Waka: Do you...{\i1}know{\i0} about this story?

The girl is very intelligent and young.

Very, and I mean, very intelligent and young.

Sasamaru: A...girl?

Waka: Yes, a girl. A {\i1}girl you know very well.{\i0}

This girl is...

...very, and I mean, very intelligent and young.

A mother who couldn't give birth...

...a father who loved the mother so much that he {\i1}prayed{\i0}...

...and the daughter born between them.

Her name is Kureha.

Kureha grew very beautifully.

So beautiful that the expression belle is nothing more than a cliché.

For this reason, many are fascinated by her.

For this reason, many desire her.

The one who finally moves is a personage famous for being a chief in these lands.

It's his son.

Surrounding a sunken hearth, there is a father, a mother, and a daughter.

A sigh leaks out.

It's from the father.

Kureha thinks about its meaning.

"The father wants to refuse that marriage proposal somehow."

She understands this...

...and agonizes.

Refusing will worsen the relationship.

The other party is the son of a landlord known even in these lands.

If things don't go well, both her parents will feel ashamed.

This must be avoided at all costs.

Then, she works out a plan.

She has a mysterious inborn power.

When she was little, she was so young that she thought everyone naturally had it.

It was natural and no one used it, so, she spent her days without using it, thinking {\i1}that is how it was.{\i0}

But now she knows.

No one else has this power.

For this reason, it can be useful.

The one married to the village's chief was her {\i1}other self.{\i0}

Grieving that his son was so madly in love, the chief packed some money and sent a servant.

And the one led by him was Kureha but also not Kureha.

This is fine.

Everything will work out peacefully.

However...

...after finding out this, the father tightly holds Kureha.

She was sure her father would be happy, but she is shocked after seeing her father's face.

In tears, he supplicates, "do not ever, ever use such an ominous thing again."

This "power" is mysterious and odd.

It is "a power one must never use."

In the end, the family cann't stay in the village.

The spell didn't lose its effect.

Nor did a secret of the chief's household come to light.

It's because the father blamed himself.

He deceived others with such wiles.

He feels ashamed for this.

"We can no longer stay on these lands," the father lowers his head to the mother and daughter.

After looking at her father, Kureha too breaks in tears.

"It's my fault."

She blames herself.

She harshly blames herself.

It is her own fault that they have to leave the land they were used to living on.

Conceited by having an inborn power an ordinary person doesn't have, she easily used it.

Why didn't she...

...think more thoroughly?

About {\i1}the meaning of using this power.{\i0}

Kureha swears.

"I'll never, never again use it."

She strongly, very strongly swears this in her heart.

She is ashamed of herself far, far more than the father is ashamed of himself.

If she leaves the village, the puppet that married in her place will also disappear.

"Aah, I'm sorry."

"I was careless."

I repeat.

This girl is very, and I mean, very intelligent and young.

That's why she starts noticing that her father is afraid of herself.

After many twists and turns, they decide that their new residence will be the capital.

It is Kureha who proposes this.

The grandfather, the grandmother, the great-grandfather, the great-grandmother.

She knows they all were caught by "this feeling" all this time.

Usually, the father doesn't display any behavior of this kind, but he, born into this home, thinks, "perhaps..."

"This feeling" wasn't fulfilled just because they went to the capital.

But it got a bit closer.

"Perhaps they will be blessed with an opportunity."

Kureha is wise.

Since that incident, she started thinking thoroughly.

But she is still a child.

She is ignorant of the ways of the world.

Or perhaps too pure.

She thinks, "it's my fault things are like this."

It is a proposal from the feeling: "I want to walk on a road to make my father at least a little happier."

But this was a pointless worry.

The father doesn't have these feelings—something that should perhaps be called "pain."

"Please, live as a person."

This is the father's only wish.

In the end, Kureha is ashamed of herself again.

The face of her father when she proposed, "how about moving to the capital?" was somewhat frightened.

How did he take it?

She can guess this much.

"What should I do?"

This is the only matter troubling Kureha.

Thinking about this on the road to the capital, she raises her head and arrives at one conclusion.

She is still a child.

Then, she should accept this and grow little by little.

To one day become a daughter able to make her father happy.

With this determination, she changes her name on the trip to the capital.

From Kureha—written as given leaves—to Kureha—written as red leaves.

Which can also be read as...

"Momiji"—meaning red leaves.

For her, this is a warning imposed onto herself in order not to forget her vow.

Sasamaru: "Momiji"?

I remember hearing this name.

Hiyo: Red leaves has...a story called "Momiji Legend," right?

This Momiji...
is the "demoness Momiji"!?

Waka: What's the matter?

Sasamaru: I-it's nothing. And that girl called Momiji...what happened to her?

After my question, I feel the temperature in Waka-san's gaze becoming one step lower.

Waka: Hah hah...I get it. So, you'll keep saying that.

Waka: Fine then. I will tear off your deceit.

Indignation is decreasing the temperature.
Decreasing enough to shiver.

What is Waka-san's intention by telling me this?

What...
{\i1}on earth is she trying to drag out!?{\i0}

What...

Life in the capital is not easy at all.

"Capital" might sound good, but you don't become rich merely by "living in the capital."

Rather, you take a straight look at the gap between rich and poor.

Momiji sees the reality and realizes, more and more, how much of a child she is.

Fortunately, she is able to teach harp.

"If this can help my parents even a little." Thinking this, she works with all her might.

These days continue for a while.

However...

...for Momiji's misfortune, whether she changes her living place or her name...

...the fact is that her beauty is still unchanged.

It won't decline.

Rather, the more time passes, the more brilliance it releases.

Therefore, men captivated by her beauty will still appear.

Momiji is greatly troubled.

This time, the courter isn't the likes of a village chief.

{\i1}It is a high class one.{\i0}

In short, the house's wish will be granted with this.

The grandfather, the grandmother...

And the parents, and their parents, and their parents...

The "pain" endlessly {\i1}afflicting{\i0} her home.

This is fulfilled with her inheriting it.

She peeks at her father's face.

The father is silent.

And again, with an expression almost trembling like always.

And every time, Momiji's chest aches.

"What should I do?"

Looking at her father after moving to the capital, she can tell that he doesn't have the "pain."

But, along with her growth, she can tell that it isn't "completely nonexistent."

The perpetuity of humans.

It is a "desire" one cannot cut off because one was born as a human.

Also, it's a fact that the present life isn't easy.

She only needs her parents beside her.

If she has her parents smiling at her, this is enough.

There's not a tint of falsehood in these feelings.

However, she wants to give an easy life to her parents, who had to leave the land they were born and raised in due to her mistake.

There's not a tint of falsehood in these feelings.

So, she is distressed.

Greatly distressed.

And after distress over distress, Momiji finally asks.

"Father, what do you think?"

Her father sinks into silence for a while and finally opens his heavy mouth.

"Do as you so wish."

His face is unmistakably one of a parent.

And, at the same time, a face of supplicating something.

"I..."

Momiji blurts out intermittent words.

She says, "I am yearning for him."

This is the first time she lies to her father.

It is a very sad lie.

A daughter pure of heart...

...and a father who fears his daughter for some reason.

Sasamaru: (It was...)

If this is the Momiji legend, this "father" is the "father" who offered a prayer to the sixth heaven's devil king.

Summing up, he is the one who brought forth Momiji into this world.

Sasamaru: (But why is he afraid of Momiji?)

Is he afraid of his own sin?
Is he feeling responsibility for bringing forth a demon into this world?

I don't know the context behind it, but...
after being cornered, did he later regret the fact he asked a devil for help?

Sasamaru: ...

I can understand him.
Everyone feels fear.

After humans become cornered, have their wishes granted, and become free from the torment...
from this moment on, they'll return to their normal selves.

What might even be natural in a pressing mental state is sometimes unable to suppress the terror in normal times.

I can understand this feeling.
And I also understand its logic.

But it's...

Sasamaru: (It's too irresponsible.)

You prayed, didn't you?
You desired, didn't you?

But do you neglect your child because "it's different from the shape you thought"?

Sasamaru: (She is your daughter, isn't she!?)

Father: Sasa.

That's irresponsible.
It's too irresponsible.

Children aren't the parents' toys.

Sasamaru: Why don't you believe in your daughter?

The uncontrollable feelings have become a mutter.

Sasamaru: I'm sure the daughter loved her father.

Waka: What did you say?

Sasamaru: Ah, it's nothing.

Waka: Hmpf, ridiculous. Truly ridiculous. Let's continue then, for your own sake.

Sasamaru: For my...sake?

Waka: Exactly. In order to teach you the truth of this world.

Time eventually passed.

Momiji had a child.

The daughter became a mother.

The father and mother seem happy.

This is why Momiji too is fulfilled.

However, there is someone disturbing her heart.

{\i1}It's the legal wife of the high class man.{\i0}

She couldn't bear a child.

She's here today without bearing a child.

Impatience becomes stronger.

If I had to speak about her without misunderstandings, the "legal wife" is a person with a pure heart.

No, this isn't quite right.

She is very "pure."

{\i1}The daughter who couldn't become a mother is still a yearning girl.{\i0}

There must be the impatience toward herself, "unable to bear a child."

It's the single point of "love might be taken away."

For this reason, she collapses.

Lying on bed, only the deep-rooted delusions swell up.

Then, she makes an action that even herself finds it unbelievable.

Lie.

Bribe.

False charges.

She bribes a monk and makes him spurt out words to kill the truth.

"That woman is a demoness."

Momiji never broke the vow she herself made.

Despite continuing to be "Momiji," just as the time when she changed her name.

However, it's no longer something to ignore with a mere glance of "it's just a rumor."

Originally, her beauty had often brought envy and jealously.

What was decisive was the monk's testimony.

Perhaps the monk might have been swayed by money.

He might not have completely refused the pure girl's wish.

But the {\i1}high class man{\i0} finally gives in...

...giving birth to the demoness "Momiji" that doesn't exist here.

If there's one miscalculation from the legal wife...

...is that the {\i1}high class man{\i0} settled for Momiji's exile and not for death penalty.

He cannot defend the demoness.

But he certainly loves her.

Momiji...

...and her family receive the banishment called exile.

Shinshu's Togakushi.

The land of Minase.

Momiji cries.

Her sobbing echoes in the azure sky.

This isn't a lament toward her unhappiness.

Sasamaru: The father...

Waka: What?

Sasamaru: At that time, what was the father doing?

Waka: You've been bothered by the father for some time now.

Sasamaru: Well...

Waka: Hah hah.

Sasamaru: Well, my...father...

Waka: {\i1}"My father"?{\i0} Who is talking about your father?

Sasamaru: Ah...sorry, it slipped.

Waka: Is your father really the reason?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: You're very worried about the "father." Is this really because you're bothered about your father?

Sasamaru: What do you...mean?

Eh.

Waka: Isn't it because you're about to recognize {\i1}who you are?{\i0}

Sasamaru: What...are you talking about?

Waka: Hey, "Sasamaru."

Waka: Could you tell me one thing? Why are you "Sasamaru"?

Sasamaru: W...why? Because my parents named me so.

Waka: Hahah...of course. So, that's how it was. I didn't know that.

Sasamaru: W...what now?

Waka: {\i1}Is it really so?{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: Were you really named "Sasamaru"?

Sasamaru: What are you talking about? I said that my father...

Look, even now I can still hear it if I strain my ears.
The voice of my father calling me from beyond that darkness.

Father: Sasa.

Eh.

What did he say?

Now, what did...
what did he call me?

Father: Sasa.

...Sasa?

Did he call me..."Sasa"?
Not "Sasamaru"?

Sasamaru: ...

What am I wondering for?

Isn't my name "Sasa"?

Sasamaru: (Which reminds me...cacophonous.)

I suddenly recall that I was often called that in the past.

My name is "cacophonous when you call it in full."

Sasamaru: Suu Sasamaru.

I unconsciously say it out loud.

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

It's not...that bad?

Sasamaru: Suu Sasamaru.

Yes, it's not all that good, but it's not that bad either.

How strange. I remember they often made fun of it in the past.

In those days, even I felt it so cacophonous that I thought, "gotta accept it."

"Suu Sasa."
Isn't this cacophonous name my name?

My name was something that was decided arbitrarily.

This isn't a joke, modesty, nor a metaphor.
It is so true that when someone asks, "what's the origin of your name?" my only answer is "intuition."

I think that bothersome and annoying people often call others with "hey" or "you there" without calling by the name.

So, there are also times when "this itself becomes the name."

{\i1}Sasa meaning small.{\i0}

There are other ways of writing it, such as sasa meaning {\i1}trivial{\i0} or sasa meaning {\i1}petty{\i0}, but they all have the same meaning.

"Sasa" means "small" or "little."

So, a small Japanese chestnut is called "Sasakuri." The undeveloped voice of an infant Japanese nightingale is called "Sasanaki."

And "Sasa"...
can also be written as {\i1}"small bamboo."{\i0}

Literally, a small bamboo.
In short, a "bamboo grass."

Bamboo grass can also be written as small bamboo. Conversely, sasakuri and sasanaki can also be written with the character for 'bamboo grass' instead of 'small'.

A {\i1}small bamboo{\i0} is a bamboo grass, a sasa.

That's why my name has the character for "bamboo grass."

But this was all added later.

Sasamaru: (Yes, "Sasa." This is my name.)

But why did I think it was "Sasamaru"?

Waka: That's simple.

In my surprised eyes is pasted the expression of Waka-san, letting out a faint smile.

Waka: Because you were "being pulled."

Sasamaru: Wait, wait a minute. I don't understand the...being pulled, but everyone, everyone was calling me "Sasamaru." They called me "Sasamaru."

I'm confused.

"Name."
Why did I fail to recognize something so natural?

Waka: It's obvious. Because you're "Sasamaru."

But Waka-san is telling me this with a decisive tone, as if saying this is something obvious.

Waka: "Tomono Sasamaru." This is your name.

Sasamaru: To...Tomono?

Waka: But "Tomono" has a weak affinity. You see, a surname is a burden. It has the status of a household. Not even karma can win against blood.

Waka: Since you presently are someone from the Suu household, your surname is "Suu." It has no use other than marriage combining two households.

Waka: Even if you give a fake name...or live as a different person with a different name, you still are a person from the Suu household. This is the power of "blood." The power of blood accumulated over generations.

Waka: However, a given name is from the individual. It's an asset of the individual, unbound by the home he was born into. That's why it has an unyielding value. But, at the same time, it is fragile because it is alone.

Waka: {\i1}All alone, it will be easily pulled.{\i0}

Sasamaru: You're lying. Even in my memories with everyone, they called me Sasamaru.

Waka: That's what it means {\i1}to be pulled.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Then, why only the memories with my father are...

Waka: That's the power of "blood." You cannot paint over it.

Blood? If that is blood...

Sasamaru: Ha...Harutsuge too called me "Sasamaru."

Waka: Was there an event that thinned the "blood"? For example, being put up for adoption.

Sasamaru: I...I don't know. What are you...

Waka: You do not need to understand. You already know this as a sensation.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: "Sasamaru." Do you feel a discomfort when being called this? Do you feel that "someone with a name similar to mine is being called"?

Waka: You only feel that "someone is calling you," correct?

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Sasamaru. You already know this.

Sasamaru: Wh...why should I know...

Waka: You wanted to ask about the "father," didn't you?

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: About Momiji's father. You wanted to ask about him, didn't you?

Sasamaru: Y-yeah.

What is she talking about now?

Waka: The name of Momiji's father is "Tomono Sasamaru."

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: In short, this is what I mean.

"Sasamaru" is...
"Tomono Sasamaru" is the name of Momiji's father?

I...
I am Momiji's father?
The "father" who was granted a child by offering a prayer to the sixth heaven's devil king?

What...
What on earth is that?
What the...

What the...
hell is that?
I don't get it.

Sasamaru: Y...you're irresponsible.

Waka: If you think the truth is irresponsible, just keep denying it as you have been doing.

Sasamaru: ...

//text on screen
"Thank you for being born."

Sasamaru: Ah...ah...

It's too...

It's a feeling too naturally slipping into my chest.

As if remembering one's childhood.

Waka: One deceit ripped off, right, "Sasamaru"?

Previous life.

She's saying to accept this? 
She's saying to allow this?

But I cannot deny it anymore.

I can't lie to the sensation that permeated my chest so "naturally."

I am "Sasamaru."

I was "Sasamaru."

Sasamaru: (Then...then...)

Then, what does this mean?

Is she...?

Who on earth is the girl before me?

Sasamaru: Waka-san...don't tell me...you're...

I remembered...
what happened at that place, on that day.

Sasamaru: Don't tell me...

Momiji.

The demoness Momiji.

Waka: You now barked, didn't you?

The voice of the extraordinaire demoness echoes in this closed space filled with shivers.

Waka: "This is not an illness." Exactly. This is not an illness.

Sasamaru: Then...what on earth is it?

I know.
Despite asking this, I already realized.
I'm simply unable to say it out loud.

Waka: If you know but say otherwise, then I should simply move your mouth, correct?

As if seeing through everything, her lingering dark-red eyes gouge my chest.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Hahah...what's wrong?

Sasamaru: ...C...

As if directly pushing up my stomach with the hand...
words are running up my throat together with an uncontrollable unpleasantness, similar to a welling-up urge to vomit.

Then, my mouth forms one word.

C.........
...ur......
.........se.

Waka: Do you know the etymology of the word autumn?

It's not just shivers that are filling this place.

Fright, trembling, shock, suppression, succumbing.
A violent enumeration endlessly piling up, as long as the vocabulary pertaining to these exists in this world.

Waka: If you separate the Japanese character for autumn "秋", you have branch "禾" and fire "火".

Waka: This branch means a rice plant. In short, it has the meaning of the season to tirelessly harvest rice plants, to "have more than enough." This is one meaning.

Waka: The second one. The season shifting from the largely humid summer sky to clear skies extending far in the distance. In short, "pure and clear."

Waka: The third one. In this season, the vegetation dyes in crimson. Yes, as if dyeing the mountains in blood. Summing up, what "crimson" changed into.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: These three have already been accomplished.

Sasamaru: Accomplished?

Waka: Yes. There is someone who completed the incomplete "autumn" of this school.

Sasamaru: Eh?

The incomplete..."autumn"?

Sasamaru: Are the trees of this school like this the whole year?

Hiyo: No. It's only in this season.

Hiyo: In spring, the spring flowers were budding. In summer...and winter too. The four seasons' existences were there.

Sasamaru: Only the autumn is like this?

...Eh?

Sasamaru: Harutsuge. I think it's unnatural. This school is unnatural.

Sasamaru: Because {\i1}there's one person missing.{\i0} One of the friends who was supposed to be holding hands isn't here.

Harutsuge: One person...missing?

Sasamaru: Yeah. That's why we're bringing him back. With our own hands.

Sasamaru: We're going to get the "four friends" together.

Wait...a minute.

Waka: The three autumns. The repeated overlapped words increase in weight. Increase in meaning, increase in depth, connect, and entangle with each other, turning into a single, giant, inseparable lump.

Waka: "More than enough of the pure and clear crimson." The three autumns are completed.

Waka: That's right, Sasamaru. I haven't told you this yet.

Waka: Welcome to this school. You wonderfully completed the "autumn."

Hiyo: Welcome to the Yumemidori Academy.

Waka: Thanks to you, my dearest wish was granted.

...Ah.

As if they were imprisoned in the bottom of a kettle, the memories overflow, as though the lid had been opened.

Sasamaru: It's...m-my...

My teeth are making chattering sounds.
The teeth's roots aren't matching, making an unpleasant sound echo.

Sasamaru: It's...my...fault?

This fact...this truth turns my vision pitch dark.

I'm in a deep hell like an abyss, deeper than the dark night.
The voice echoing is from the demoness.

Waka: Wrong. It's {\i1}thanks{\i0} to you.

Waka: Thanks to you, my curse is now complete.

Waka: I thank you, "Sasamaru."

//text on screen
Flustered Savior

I must save.
I must save.
I must save.

I must save everyone.

Let me out...
of here.

Sasamaru: Let me out of here!!

The response to my shout, close to a scream, is a scornful laugh.

Waka: If you saw it with your own eyes, just jump out of the bystander's seat.

At this moment, something similar to a path appears together with a strange sound.

I can't see due to its inner part being covered with a cold darkness, but this is probably...

Sasamaru: Waka...san.

Waka: Realize once more the meaning of the scenery burned in those eyes.

Sasamaru: Ugh!

I jump out as if I was flicked.
I feel I'll be crushed if I don't move.

Waka: ...

I don't turn back.

I wonder what face the girl staring at me is making.

I must save.
I must save.
I must save.

I must save everyone!!

Sasamaru: I'm out!!

There is a familiar scenery as far as I can see.

After blank days, I finally return to the school.

Then, I run.

And run...

...and run...

...and run.

But what I manage to do after returning here...

...is simply to confirm with the naked eye the images projected on that nasty TV.

Sasamaru: (What should...I do?)

This is the issue.
I don't know this.

Sasamaru: Aah...aaaahhh...

Tormented by feelings of powerlessness, I fall to my knees.

I can't completely hide my face.
Tears are simply accumulating on my palms.

Impatience.
Indignation.
Despair.

As if all of it had been devoured to pieces, everything is finely chopped, simply tumbling inside my head.

The negative pieces of flesh blend with each other. An offensive smell shrouds.

A {\i1}shape{\i0} without {\i1}shape{\i0} is rapidly swelling inside me.

Sasamaru: Ugh, ghh!

I don't even notice the welling-up gastric juice.

I feel as if my body was twisting and, when an odd substance comes out of my mouth together with a strange voice, I notice, "aah, so, I threw up."

But I don't care about this.
What do I do?
What should I do?

It's my fault.
It's my fault things are like this.
It's my fault this happened.

But I don't know what to do.
My head is blank.
But it's more to black than blank.
A darkness.
A darkness.
A darkness.
From those days.

Those days.
FrOm ThOsE dAyS.

Sasamaru: ...

I start walking.
Out of a sudden.

Huh? When did I stand up?
Huh? Wait, I was sitting down? Or did I fall over?

What did fall over?
My head?

Huh? Huh? Huh?

Where am I going?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru...kun?

Sasamaru: Haru...tsuge?

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun!!

Harutsuge stands up and embraces me.

She is the girl who was frailly clasping her arms around her knees until this very moment.

Harutsuge: Where were you all this time!? How worried do you think everyone...

I can't catch what she's saying.

My head is somewhat blank.
Huh, black?

Only the question "why?" is coming up.

"Why is Harutsuge with such a weakened face?"

Harutsuge is always gallant, elegant, and proud.

It's my admired...
That's right.
It's my fault.

It's my fault...things are like this.
...Like this.

Sasamaru: Sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sor...

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: I...what do I do? What do I do? Hey, what do I do?

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Everyone, what do I do? I'm sorry. What do I do? I'm sorry.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun.

Sasamaru: Hey, sister. What do I do?

Harutsuge: Eh?

Sasamaru: Sister, hey. Sister, hey, hey.

Harutsuge: ...

My memories are mistaken.
Disordered.

My self-awareness cannot catch up with this abrupt flow of information.

Sasamaru: Haru...tsuge...

But this person...
This person before me...

My aspiration.
The leader of us, the Four Noble Ones.

Worldly-wise,
manly,
silly,
the strongest in brawls,
stylish,
stylish,
and stylish.

And also...

Sasamaru: Sis...ter...

My...my...
real sister.

Sasamaru: Tell me...please tell me. What should I do...

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Anything you say is correct. I can obey it.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: I beg you, Harutsuge. Please show me the way.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsugeeeee.

Harutsuge: ...

Sasamaru: Harutsugeeeeee.

At this moment...

Sasamaru: Eh.

In my face...
a fist...
is...

Sasamaru: Ghhhrrr!!

...sinking in.

//text on screen
WHOOOSH

A few seconds later.
No, it might have been a few minutes.

Sasamaru: Huh?

I'm now back to myself.

Sasamaru: Eh, huh...Harutsu...ge?

After I look up, there lies one woman like a fierce god.

Harutsuge: Stop screwing with me, you brat.

Wooow. She's soooooo scary.

Harutsuge: That's not it! That's not what you should say!

Harutsuge's rebuke flies.

Harutsuge: What you just said is a mere blind belief! What I say is correct!? Don't screw with me!!

Sasamaru: ...!

Harutsuge: Am I a god!? Am I your god!? Huh? Then, you will every day exchange rings, face the holy land "my home," and chant, "furbee," "furbee," right!? You'll do this, won't you!?

You're mixing so much there.
To exchange rings is at the wedding ceremony, okay?
Wait, what is "furbee"?

Harutsuge: Hey, Sasamaru!!

Sasamaru: Yes!!

Harutsuge: Stop clinging to me with the same eyes as those days!!

...Eh.

Father: Saaaasaaaaa.

I...
So, I was trying to do the same thing I did in those days.

Those days, when I blindly believed that "my father's words were absolute," that "it was natural."

Sasamaru: I'll win against you and prove that light is real!!

And it was even I who smashed it!

Sasamaru: Sorry, Harutsuge. I now woke up.

Harutsuge: Yeah.

Sasamaru: Thanks, sister.

Aah, that's right.
That's why it's "Harutsuge."

{\i1}That's why{\i0} Kashi Harutsuge is our elder sister.

Harutsuge: T-that's...well, stop calling me...that.

Sasamaru: But, you're my sister, aren't you?

Harutsuge: You knew it?

Sasamaru: I heard from you.

Harutsuge: Huh?

That's right.
You don't remember this.

Harutsuge: A-anyway, when you call me sister, err...at least do it after I finish doing what I have to.

Sasamaru: What you have to do, right.

Harutsuge: Yes. Now it's your turn to punch me.

You don't remember.

But I won't forget.
I'll never again forget.
Like hell I'll forget.

Your face when you opened your mouth as if confessing your own sin.

And your face when you burst into tears.

I will never forget.

Sasamaru: It's fine, Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: Eh?

Sasamaru: It's fine, really.

Harutsuge: I can't do that. This is a good time. Listen to my...

Sasamaru: The turn for me to punch you will never come.

Harutsuge: Sasamaru-kun?

Sasamaru: I was merry. I was really happy. You are my...

I swallow my next words.

Sasamaru: But this isn't important. You are the elder sister. {\i1}Our elder sister.{\i0} Knowing this is enough.

Harutsuge: ...

For a while, Harutsuge, astonished, looks at me, but...

Harutsuge: You're with a fine face.

Eventually, Harutsuge says these words.

With the usual...
face of our elder sister.

Harutsuge: You actually knew it, didn't you, Sasamaru-kun? About what you should do now.

Sasamaru: ...

Harutsuge: This is the face you're making.

Really, thank you, Harutsuge.
And also, sorry for always troubling you.

Harutsuge: First, go to Hiyo-kun. She's the one worried the most about you.

Sasamaru: Yeah.

Harutsuge: Go, Sasamaru-kun. With your head high.

She's right.
"The commandant for me"...
{\i1}means this{\i0}, right?

Sasamaru: Yeah!!

I run again.

But this time, it's different.

Because my sister slapped my back.

Harutsuge: Jeez.

While staring at Sasamaru's back...
she leans against the wall and helplessly crumbles down.

She doesn't have the composure to feel even the floor's coldness.

Harutsuge: I said, "I can't call him thickheaded anymore," but I take back what I said. Why do you think we are in different places during all this?

Harutsuge: We were able to endure so far because of Araragi-kun's efforts at maintaining the harmony, and Hiyo-kun's strong and unusual perseverance, but...we are at our limits, Sasamaru-kun.

Harutsuge: We are already at our limits.

Then, it slips.

Harutsuge: You have to be here with us!

Harutsuge is staring at her fingertips, limping and trembling.

After enduring, enduring, and enduring, this is her state.

The conclusion they reached was "we must not be together."

They wanted to avoid hurting their dear friends.

"Then, let's at least decay out of sight."

Harutsuge: Look! This is our state just because you, our leader, disappeared!

Just like those days.

A lump of self-reproach and self-torment showed him as humble.

After eventually realizing it was "something else," he changed.

While not changing "how he perceives himself."
Out of nowhere, he was "the boy more reliable than anyone."

His methods are poor, immature, and far from clever, but...

He is straightforward.
He is pure.
He is always serious.

More earnestly than anyone, he is thinking about everyone.

That's why everyone supported him.

Everyone got close to the worthless general.

The wisdom, Kumigami Hiyo has it.
The cheerfulness, Yumeno Araragi displays it.
The adult, Kashi Harutsuge can become it.

Then, Suu Sasamaru...

Harutsuge: (So, that's the so-called natural virtue.)

So, she thinks.

"I'm sure the result would be different if Suu Sasamaru were here."

Harutsuge: Just by having you here, for some reason, we think that "it will work out."

"Until the very end, we would have chosen a path to be together, even if we ended up hurting each other."

The bonds built anew became so fragile just because he disappeared.

Harutsuge: ...

Is it really so?

Can't they be happy together unless "he" is here?

No.
Certainly no.

The girls chose the path of not hurting each other exactly because they treasure each other.

Then...
let's ask.

"Can't they {\i1}overcome even this little hardship{\i0} unless 'he' is here?"
Ask this.

Harutsuge: Hah, hahaha.

It's laughable.
Herself thinking this is laughable.

Harutsuge: It was I who was encouraged.

Harutsuge quickly stands up...

...with her back stretched straight.

Harutsuge: Let's go.

With her feeble breath, Harutsuge starts walking.

It's really laughable.

She thought that she wouldn't be able to stand up anymore, but, just by calling him to mind, she...

Araragi: Ha...Harutsuge-chan! Sasamaru-chan just now...!

Panting, Araragi bursts in.

Harutsuge: Hey, Araragi-kun.

Looking at her expression, the first emotion Harutsuge harbors is "relief."

"It's the usual Araragi."

Really, just like always.

And she too couldn't even stand up.

Harutsuge: (Jeez, you're really great, Sasamaru-kun.)

She's proud.

She's proud of Suu Sasamaru.

Harutsuge: So, Sasamaru-kun made you "push yourself" too.

He is an existence that cannot ever be missing, in order for them to keep being the "Four Noble Ones."

{\i1}"Our support."{\i0}

Harutsuge: (But I can't keep saying this, can I?)

Harutsuge faces forward.

Despite muttering gratitude to him inside her heart, she faces forward with these feelings.

Then, her eyes meet with Araragi's.

Harutsuge: (Oh.)

And it seems Araragi is the same.

Then, Harutsuge smiles.

Araragi {\i1}came for her.{\i0}

She didn't go together with Sasamaru nor ran to Hiyo.
She came to her.

Came to none other than Kashi Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: (Jeez.)

It appears nothing needs to be said.

Then, at least...

Harutsuge: Let's at least "resist."

Araragi nods at Harutsuge's words.

Harutsuge: Okay? We'll go on the "three."

Araragi: Yup.

Their "determination" is there.

The two: One, two...

However, it's not a determination to be crushed by tragedy.

Harutsuge: I...

Araragi: I...

Harutsuge: ...love...

Araragi: ...love...

What is there is a freshness to walk with one's head high.

The two: ...you <3.

Then, the two smile, as if being proud of the existence reflected in each other's eyes.

On this day, at this time...

...two butterflies fly away from this proud place.

I'm really worthless.

What am I doing?
Really, what am I doing?

But there's someone who scolded me.
There's someone who stopped me, even if she had to punch.

And how grateful I am for that.
Now, the taste of iron permeating my mouth is not calling me back to those days.

Rather, I'm filled with a joy so great to laugh off those days.

In the first place...

Hiyo: The "illness" now spreading inside this school...this is all my fault.

It's because I think like this that someone became a scapegoat.

And it's a person very, very important to me.

An irreplaceable comrade, a close friend, and also...

Sasamaru: (I was about to repeat the same thing.)

Really, I'm too frank.

I'm like an open book to everyone, and yet I disorder the situation with my poor considerations.

I'm a simpleton, a foolhardy, and an idiot, and yet things turn out like this because I try to think about difficult matters.

Straightforwardly.

I will run straightforwardly!!

The road will follow behind me.

Sasamaru: Uggh!

It's a pain as if I'm being pierced by a needle.

And every time I feel pain, it gets heavier and more violent, as if overwriting the previous pain.

Sasamaru: (...So, it's here.)

I remember this pain.

I cannot ever forget.

This is the truth of this world.

The proof that I'm now living in this world.
"To be kind to someone brings pain."

Sasamaru: (It's because...I left the student council room.)

The illness again bares its fangs.

No, it's no longer appropriate to call it an illness.

It's a curse that greedily devours me.

Sasamaru: Hah.

I was prepared for this long ago.

Way before this curse started squirming.

Sasamaru: Hiyo!!

I find her in the hallway.

Hiyo: Ho...ney...?

Hiyo is looking at me with hollow eyes.

Sasamaru: I'm back.

I think that these are the only words I should say to her.

Hiyo: Welcome home!

Holding back her, who is trying to stand up, I now sit down.

I must not repeat the same actions.

Sasamaru: Are you all right?

While feeling that these words are somewhat incomplete, I still think these are the only words I should continue with.

Hiyo: Yes...I thought the time had come the moment I saw you.

She's quite honest.
I'm happy about this.

Sasamaru: How rude. Am I the grim reaper?

Hiyo: Ah, no, it's not that.

Vigor is gradually returning to Hiyo's spaced-out eyes.

Hiyo: At the last moment, I thought I was seeing a vision of the one I wanted to see.

Sasamaru: That's quite poetic coming from you.

Hiyo: Ah...you're right.

Hiyo is thinking that she herself is funny.

Hiyo: Your existence is too intense for me. I'm already being affected by you.

I'm sure she's being affected since long ago.

But her self-control...
Her sadly strong heart kept refusing it.

She probably didn't try to accept herself being affected.

It was also the reservedness toward Araragi.

And also the feelings of "the likes of me" she was always harboring.

Sasamaru: Yeah. I'll soon dye you in my color.

My mouth is about to twist after saying this.

But...

Hiyo: Hehe.

After looking at Hiyo, making a happy expression from the bottom of her heart, I now want to say this as much as I can.

So, I kept letting this happiness escape, eh.

And it was even right in front of me.

I was seriously believing boring things like "someone would never like me, right?"

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

This means...

Sasamaru: No more "the likes of me," okay?

Hiyo: Eh.

Sasamaru: Okay?

Hiyo: Y-yes.

Because that is most rude to the other party.

To the person who loves the likes of me...
There, I said it again.

It's rude to the person who loves me.

It's a waste of time to look down upon oneself.

Sasamaru: Hang in there a little.

After passing my hands around Hiyo's neck and behind her knees, I lift her up.

Hiyo: H-h-honey.

Even with a frail voice, Hiyo is cute.

Sasamaru: I'll carry you to your room for now.

Hiyo: I-I-I can walk by myself.

Sasamaru: No.

Hiyo: B-but you're...carrying me like a princess...

Sasamaru: Yeah. Because you're my princess.

Hiyo: ...

Although vigor has returned, Hiyo again looks at me with spaced-out eyes.

Hiyo: I feel...stupid for worrying.

On this day, at this time, with this timing...

...we, two just-started lovebirds, are flirting.

Ha ha ha.

I'm so unbelievable happy that I respectfully request for everyone not to frigging bother us.

I know Hiyo's health is the same as on that day.

Encouraged by Araragi and sent out by Harutsuge, I came to this dormitory to confess...
on that day.

But of course.
For me, not many days have passed since that day.

Besides, I cannot forget it.

Sasamaru: Which reminds me, I haven't said my thanks.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: The first time I came to this dorm, you made all the dishes I wanted to eat.

Hiyo: Ah.

...At this late.
...At really this late.

But now I can see how much she has been supporting me so far.

Now, finally.

It's very late, but I want to say my thanks.

Hiyo: Honey, you liked the "Japanese" since long ago.

I didn't clearly say it to everyone, but Hiyo must have guessed it from my behavior and from the conversation.

The menu of that day was what I said.

Sasamaru: But you remembered it all. It's what I said in our childhood, when someone asked at class, "is there something you want to eat when you grow up?"

Others said, "French cuisine," someone more knowledgeable said, "Manchu–Han Imperial Feast," and I plainly answered "grated pollack roe" and "boiled dark seaweed."

I craved for it.
I was always, always craving for these dishes.

Hiyo: Because...

A bit embarrassed, Hiyo...

Hiyo: Thinking of someday making it for you...I kept practicing.

...says this.

Come to think of it, when we went on a picnic too.
Hiyo made Japanese meals.

When Araragi said, "I'll make sandwiches," Hiyo timidly said, "may I make something too?"

Not only at the classroom chats, but I spoke about this menu when the topic occasionally changed to that. And Hiyo remembered all of it.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

After I say this, Hiyo, as if her feelings were finally rewarded...
happily breaks into a smile.

Sasamaru: I...felt I started my life late compared to everyone else.

Sasamaru: I can't be considerate like everyone, and I can't guess others' feelings...so, I yearned for the "Japanese."

It's the first time I say this.

Sasamaru: There's the wabisabi aesthetic sense, right? I thought I would be able to become like everyone if I could understand this.

Sasamaru: And while pursuing this...my tastes were dyed by "Japanese" before I noticed.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: It's a weird story, isn't it?

You may laugh.

It's a childish dream, like pursuing something that doesn't exist.

Still, I'm happy to be able to say this to Hiyo.

I'm happy because it's Hiyo.

Hiyo: Honey, you were bound to come to this school.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Hiyo: This school is dyed in "Japanese" all over. I'm sure this school is happy to be able to welcome someone who loves the "Japanese" more than anyone.

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Hiyo: I'm sure even this dormitory is happy.

Whether you look left, right...

...up or down...
this school is overflowing with a Japanese atmosphere.

And also this dorm I'm now in.

It's not like Hiyo, but, for "the Hiyo who's with me," these words, very like her...
gradually spread in my chest.

Sasamaru: ...Good. They're happy.

Hiyo: Yes, I'm sure of it.

More.

I want to be together with Hiyo more and more.

I want to have more conversations that might make others hit me if they overheard it.

I want to be lovey-dovey with her forever.

Hiyo: Come to think of it, do you happen to know that Waka-san's everyday clothes are kimonos?

Sasamaru: Wow, she wears that.

Hiyo: Yes. Perhaps she might get excited about this topic with you.

This girl is Momiji.

The ringleader creating this phenomenon.

The one who put us in this situation and is tormenting us is the demoness Momiji.

Sasamaru: ...

The words coming up to my throat are soundless.

I want to be with Hiyo.

I want to spend an enjoyable time with her.

And then...

Sasamaru: Speaking of which, Hiyo. You said that Waka-san called you with a different nickname at first?

Hiyo: Yes. She called me "granny."

Hiyo is happily talking about her memories with Waka-san.

"Enjoyable."
This is important.

And to protect this is what I must do.

Sasamaru: "Granny"?

Hiyo: Yes. She's really rude, isn't she? No matter how you look at it, I'm not a "granny."

Sasamaru: I really don't get her.

Am I smiling?

Am I properly smiling?

Is it not an awkward smile?

Hiyo: Then, I persuaded, and persuaded, and persuaded her. And she finally changed it to "big sis."

Hiyo is making an awkward smile while saying, "I do have a problem with 'big sis' too."

Sasamaru: No, I think you two are perfect sisters.

Hiyo: Is that so?

Sasamaru: Yeah. The beautiful and kind older sister, and the younger one adoring her.

Hiyo: I-I'm not beautiful.

Sasamaru: You are beautiful!!

I loudly raise my voice at the bashful Hiyo.

Hiyo: Honey?

Sasamaru: Sorry.

And also...

And also...
Hiyo is starting to disappear.

Sasamaru: Sorry, but...I'll say it. Hiyo, you are beautiful.

Sasamaru: More beautiful than anyone. Cuter than anyone. All the beauties in the world are no match for you.

Hiyo: ...

Sasamaru: For me, you are the most beautiful girl in the whole world.

I keep throwing words at her, who's dumbfounded.

As to not let her notice.

As to not let her notice she's about to disappear.

As to let her disappear happier than anyone.

Sasamaru: I am happy to have met you. That day, it was merely a coincidence that I met you. But for me, it was a miracle.

So, I simply throw out my true feelings.

Sasamaru: I'm happy to be able to be with you. I learned a lot from you. You have been saving me ever since that day when you extended your hand to me.

I offer the best gratitude in the whole world.

Sasamaru: I am happy...to be able to love you.

These feelings, like the Möbius loop.

There's no back side on the Möbius loop, produced when you twist a tape and connect its extremities.

Forever and ever without an end.
Forever the "front side."

Our feelings, our time, they're always, always running on the front side.

Simply throwing our straightforward feelings at each other.

I will never let it disappear.

Hiyo: Ho...ney.

Don't cry.
Me, don't cry!

Bite your lips and endure.
Endure even if you have to bite them off!

This is not a farewell.

This is not a final farewell.

I have proof to believe this.

Sasamaru: Even if I were to be reborn in this world hundreds or thousands of times, and even if I were to unite with someone else every time...

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

Sasamaru: I will forget anything but this love.

Hiyo: ...

She isn't saying anything.

About to say something but swallowing her words each time. And every time, tears accumulate in the corner of her eyes.

She isn't saying anything.

Simply...

...smiling.

The best smile of Hiyo, who was always smiling beside me.

And, in this room where we became one...

...a butterfly flies away.

Sasamaru: Hey.

I ask to the shadow cast on the sliding door.

Sasamaru: Could you tell me the name of "Tomono Sasamaru's" wife?

The shadow speaks.

With a voice like licking a sweet candy, permeated with joy to the deepest depths.

Waka: It's "Kikuyo."

Sasamaru: Right.

"Kikuyo."

In Japanese, the character for "chrysanthemum" can be read as 'kiku' and 'aki,' which means autumn.

And there's one more reading with a sound perfectly fit for this place.

It's...
'hi.'

Sasamaru: Hiyo.

My name in this land became "Sasamaru."

But if there was a "pulling" effect the moment "Sasa" was affixed to my name...

Then...the wife, too, should have been "pulled" in some form.

Waka: One more deceit ripped off.

Sasamaru: ...

I somehow noticed it.

Going round and round, we met again.

In this world too, I was able to unite with her, who was married to me.

But...

Sasamaru: (I want to use...anything but the previous life as a reason.)

We loved each other in this world.

Waka: Hahah...well, it was faster than last time.

A demon enters from the sliding screen that opens without a sound.

It is a dweller of the other side, melting as if stepping through the gaps of the human heart.

Waka: So, the only one remaining in the school is you, "Sasamaru."

Sasamaru: Sure. I'm the last person.

Waka: Yes. Then, let's skin it. I'll rip all, all of your deceits.

Sasamaru: ...

Momiji lets out a sobbing that echoes in the azure sky.

Her father collapsed.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Not just the daughter.

The mother too keeps grieving.

Momiji knows how much her mother loves her father.

She didn't do anything.

She simply changed from daughter to mother, obeying her father's wish and the warning toward herself.

Still, she blames herself for her father's collapse.

She has feelings for the capital.

Momiji loves that land.

The land is magnificent.

It was a dazzling and extravagant life, with every possible luxury, opulent, lavish, gaudy, flamboyant, and hedonist days.

This place is indeed the "capital."

It is a craving as someone born into that home.

A "pain."

...No.

There's determination there.

There's an oath there.

It's the land where she was "Momiji."

And also...

...the memories with her irreplaceable "family."

Momiji was to the bitter end, astonishingly, to the bitter end...

...the daughter of her father, who wasn't caught by the home's "pain."

...the daughter of her thickheaded father.

Then...

...no wonder she has feelings for it.

No wonder she's driven by feelings of homesickness.

Momiji must have called the unimportant lands of Minase as capital due to reluctance.

Exactly like her father, who wasn't caught in the "pain" due to painting.

The daughter might not have been caught by the "pain" due to the wordplay.

Exactly as when she changed her name from Kureha to Momiji.

Then, Momiji faces forward.

Facing forward, as she has always been doing.

Now, to create memories in this land.

And, most importantly, for her parents to live quietly in the new land.

With these feelings in her chest, Momiji devotes herself to the people in the land of Minase.

"Demoness"

"Sinner"

As to not pain her parents with these libels.

Maybe she didn't reveal to everyone the reason her family came to this land.

Or maybe it's the personality of the land itself.

Those from Minase warmly welcome the family.

In addition, Momiji is a daughter who earnestly devotes herself to the village. And, above all else, her beauty.

Eventually, Momiji is praised by the villagers as a living god.

A god.

That's right, I heard this story from Hiyo.

The supposedly demoness Momiji was praised as a god.

Because she was an evil god.
No, it's not that.

Is it because she was a person really like a god?

But...
then, wait a minute.

Why was such a person exterminated?

In the legends, at the end it says, "and she was defeated by the greatest hero of the time sent by the Imperial Court."

It was a false accusation. But didn't she already receive punishment?

Waka: Until now is {\i1}what I heard from my mother.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Eh?

...What did she say?

What did she just...?

Waka: And the unshakable truth I saw with these "eyes."

{\i1}I{\i0} was born.

But my eyes could see even before I was born.

My ears could hear.

My nose could smell.

The place I was born was the land of exile.

The lands of Minase, where my pregnant mother drifted to.

The dear land.

But no one noticed {\i1}it was so{\i0} when I was born.

"Tsune Wakamaru."

This is my name.

A man's name.

I understand the feelings for my mother to call me a "boy."

My mother kept her promise to my grandfather.

Drifted by an unrelated sin.

It must have been sad.

It must have been painful.

She must have felt resentful.

Still, my mother kept her promise to my grandfather.

"Please, live as a person."

This was a small resistance.

A little bit of retaliation.

In this land where the voice doesn't reach the capital, "the born child is a boy," she laughed just a little bit.

Okay, mother.

I'll be a boy until I become of age.

"Thoughtless," laughs the mother at herself.

They will soon find out about this.

Sasamaru: Tsune Waka...Maru?

Waka: Yes, this is the name I received from my mother, old geezer.

"Old geezer."

Waka: I finally realized who you are.

Sasamaru: Eh?

Waka: Of course. No wonder you were with big sis...and also incompatible with me.

Sasamaru: What are you...talking about?

Waka: I'm saying that I hate you, old geezer.

So, that's why.
So, that's what it was.

Now everything is connected.
It's all connected.

Hiyo: Yes. She called me "granny."

Sasamaru: "Granny"?

Hiyo: Yes. She's really rude, isn't she? No matter how you look at it, I'm not a "granny."

I know who she is.

And I'm her...

"I hate my grandfather."

She's thinking about him, but...

She's being so considerate, but grandfather has always, always doubted my mother.

Yes, my mother came to this world as a result of your prayer.

But she's sparkling.

She has a very beautiful {\i1}heart.{\i0}

Please believe in her.

There's no demoness anywhere.

Yes, there's no demoness.

That's why my mother too hasn't noticed that I "know" it.

My mother kept sealing her powers. I wonder if she stopped being a demoness long ago.

Perhaps I have a power far stronger than that of my mother.

My mother, having this inborn power, used it only once.

This power kept being stored inside my mother.

It might have swollen into an even bigger power and flowed into me.

But, yes.

I know, mother.

I too won't use the power.

Hey, grandpa.

Do you know why my mother named herself "Momiji"?

You went on a family trip once, right?

The land where everyone was born. My mother, my grandfather, my grandmother, everyone.

My mother kept blaming herself, "it's my fault."

The land everyone left because my mother used the power just a single time.

The land where she said, "let's go with everyone once things calm down."

You saw it with my mother, right?

With the whole family, before I was born, when my mother was still small.

But now, you took me together, saying, "things have finally calmed down."

It's so beautiful.

Sasamaru: That just now...

Waka: Good, you saw it. But of course. Because you saw it with me once.

Waka: No. In your case, I should say that you "remembered."

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Hey. Why didn't you believe in my mother?

Waka: Why did you die?

Sasamaru: I...died?

Waka: You severed your own life.

Why?

Why did you die?

And my mother even kept her promise with you.

As your child, as the child of you two, my mother kept living elegantly and earnestly, but...

...why didn't you believe in her?

My grandmother had sunk in sorrow.

She loved you more than anyone in the world.

You were her emotional support.

Even a child like me can tell this.

You left my grandmother.

How did my mother feel when she saw my grandmother like this?

Sasamaru: Why...why did I...

It's frustrating.
I don't know what he thought nor his decisions.

Why did he die?

Waka: He ran away.

As if spitting out a lump of poison, Waka-san bitterly declares this.

Sasamaru: Ran away?

Waka: Exactly.

Sasamaru: But, from what?

Waka: From the "hero."

My...
eyes...
...
...

A sudden pain burns my eyes.

But pain is something you get used to.

Even an incessant pain eventually has a moment when it calms down.

This moment, far distant from a relaxing silence...one might laugh as a nasty joke if I express it so, but...

...still, a matter that I can only call "knack" will come.

At this moment, I notice.

I notice that the places I'm holding down and the ones in pain are not the same.

From this "eye pain" perception, I hold down the most natural part, but...

...it's not it.

Yes.

It's as if I {\i1}had one more eye in my forehead.{\i0}

This "eye" is seeing.

This "eye" is investigating.

This "eye" is surveying.

This "eye" is seeing through.

It is seeing through miles away.

I see, it's you.

It's {\i1}you.{\i0}

This eye of mine opened because you approached.

A hero is coming.

A hero will come, believing he is saving the innocent people.

The demoness shall be destroyed.

It's her.

It's her again.

The legal wife is again frightened because I have a man's name.

Again, she, who still cannot bear a child.

She kept monitoring our lives all this time.

Her spy has slipped into this village.

So, she got angry and responded to that child's play "retaliation" of my mother.

"Uuh," I unconsciously let out a moan.

It's seeing.

It's investigating.

It's seeing through.

I get it.

So, you laid the blame for the recent night burglar devastating the villages on my mother.

{\i1}Once more,{\i0} you spread rumors that the demoness started running amok again.

Come to think of it, only this village hasn't been attacked by the night burglar.

Hahaha.

Perhaps the night burglar itself is her doing.

So, she drew a plan to again frame my mother as a demoness.

...How hateful.

How hateful.

Mother.

Mother.

Where are you going?

Be frank with me.

I can see it.

That samurai is of pure heart.

He received the Imperial Court's orders and came to defeat the demoness tormenting the innocent villagers.

He should understand if we explain it to him.

"Are you the demon?" asks the hero.

"Yes, you are correct. But I haven't hurt anyone," replies my mother.

Then, the hero nods in agreement, "good."

Look, he understands.

Then, the hero speaks this.

"I was told you would say that."

It's her!

She even did that!

Having unsheathed his sword, he cannot be stopped anymore.

His heart has loyalty and courage.

Then...

Then...

Mother, we have no choice.

Let's use the "power."

We should step back for now.

I'm sure the circumstances will change with time.

"My father died together with the sin of bringing me into this world," says my mother.

What are you talking about? Hurry!

"If you still cannot forgive, then take only this demoness," says my mother with a firm attitude and without moving an inch.

"The others have nothing to do."

Hurry!!

W...why...

Aah, my mother...

...kept her promise with my grandfather.

The hero is {\i1}not at fault.{\i0}

But I {\i1}hate{\i0} the legal wife.

She will pay.

I'll get her.

{\i1}I'll kill her.{\i0}

I'm sorry, mother.

I'll use the power you gave me.

Hey.

Don't think it won't reach you.

To me, the capital is just a straddle away.

I'll kill you from here.

I'll strangle you from here.

You in the capital.

Now, I will kill you.

...I gulp.

There's no feedback.

She isn't there.

She isn't there anymore.

She isn't anywhere anymore.

She couldn't bear it.

She couldn't bear it and committed suicide.

She died too.

On the day she sent out the hero, she died, unable to bear the pangs of conscience.

Haha.

Hahaha.

Hahahahahahahahahahahahahaha.

Hey, you.

Don't do this if you're going to die.

What are you......

Mother.

Mother.

Mo...ther.

And then...

//text on screen
Suspended Sympathizer

Sasamaru: ...

Words aren't coming out.

I believe I have no right to speak even a single word.

Why am I crying?

It's simply...

It's simply heartbreaking.

When I was young, I was saved by the existence called "Four Noble Ones."

By the existence called Kumigami Hiyo.
By the existence called Yumeno Araragi.
By the existence called Kashi Harutsuge.

I was separated from them due to my home's circumstances, but...

...I was looking forward to the day I would see them again.

But...

Harutsuge: So, let's move on from this "best friends forever."

The reality was thrust onto me.

There was no demoness anywhere.

A birth because there wasn't anyone to defeat.

//text on screen
If the hero defeats a demon that doesn't exist...

//text on screen
...a real demon will be born.

//text on screen
Her mother risked her life to seal it.
And the daughter who had her mother killed in front of her...

//text on screen
...released the "power."

She, too, was crushed by the reality.

Her days so far were completely negated by the reality abruptly thrust onto her.

She lost it.

I ask myself, "why?"

"Why are tears overflowing from both my eyes?"

It's ridiculous to think it's similar.

To overlap it with that is just...

That was me merely imposing my arbitrary feelings.

They told me later they had their reasons.

It's my choice how much I treasure it and how much value I put in it, but to demand it from others as if it was something natural is nothing more than my imposition.

Even so, we were able to build it again.

We were able to be the "Four Noble Ones."

But not her.

The name of the reality thrust onto her is...
"unfairness."

She {\i1}simply lost.{\i0}

Toward the "unfairness" in front of them, humans...

...hate, 
resent, 
curse,
and raise a roar with a worn-out voice.

Humans express it in many ways, like "an abrupt reality," "an inevitability," or "bad luck." This all means "someone became a victim due to someone else's fault."

But the reality that assaulted her wasn't so.

{\i1}It wasn't even so.{\i0}

A man too serious merely offered a prayer because he loved his wife.

Born as the devil's child, the girl of pure heart simply treasured her family.

A timid wife who worried because she cared for her husband.

The hero simply risked his life to suppress the demon because he believed he was saving the innocent people.

There wasn't this "someone."

The sinners are more than one can enumerate.

But there was no villain.

Should the hero have been more thoughtful?
Should the legal wife have been stronger?
Should Momiji have broken the promise?

In the first place, should the grandfather not have wished for a child?

There's no point in saying this.

There is only "an unfairness with no one."

Or perhaps an "unfairness made up on top of everyone involved."

Sasamaru: (Then, she...)

Whom should she resent?

Sasamaru: ...Let me ask one thing.

My trembling lips weave words.

Sasamaru: Do you...resent "someone"?

Waka-san quietly waves her head at my question.

Waka: I watched all the events leading to the result. What happened, what accumulated, and the conclusion after everything entwined.

Waka: Therefore, I understood...

I was misunderstanding.

Waka: ...that "no one was wrong."

Waka: ...that "every single person was kind."

She thought that she was denying the act in which a person is considerate of another.
That is, "kindness."

But that's not quite right.

She...

Waka: No one was wrong, but...not a single person had malice, but...

She knows.

She knows about "kindness."

Waka: Still, if such a tragedy is bound to happen...

Exactly because she knows...

...she concluded this.

Waka: ...hearts should just wither.

I bite my lips at these words.

I want to talk back.
But I cannot ever do it.

So, I bite my lips.

The taste of iron makes me recall my self of long ago.

Waka: Hearts are unnecessary. Feelings of being considerate of another are unnecessary.

Waka: Either in good or bad faith, humans will hurt someone.

Aah.

The sea of withered trees I saw that day...
is her grief itself.

This is not hatred.
This is not resentment.
And...
{\i1}not even a curse.{\i0}

She was "doubting."

Doubting the world, doubting humans.
And above all else, doubting the existence of a "heart."

And...

After accepting this result, she caused...

Sasamaru: What...did you do?

Waka: What I {\i1}did?{\i0}

Sasamaru: That moment, enveloped by some kind of light...

A light?

Did I say "light" just now?

That was a "light"?

Waka: Who knows. I myself am not aware if I {\i1}did{\i0} something or not.

Waka-san says this without any signs of feigning ignorance.

Sasamaru: (She didn't cause it of her own will?)

Waka: But...

My thoughts are drowned out by her pulverizing voice tone.

Waka: There is something clear. It's the truth born at that moment.

What she thrusts is the truth towering before me.

Waka: {\i1}A demoness just as wished.{\i0}

...As if saying that everything else is meaningless.

Waka: Its name isn't Momiji. It's Tsune Wakamaru.

...As if showing that uncertain matters have not a speckle of value.

Sasamaru: ...

Just now, I said, "enveloped."
"Enveloped by some kind of light."

However, this representation isn't appropriate.

Because that can't be represented by the simple word "enveloped."

It was {\i1}corroded.{\i0}

What appeared at that moment, a ligh...

Sasamaru: (No!)

It was corroded by "something."

Like a blindfold.
No.

This "something" corroded the world's eyes, as if blinding it with a tight grip.

It wasn't blinding the eyes with dazzling brightness like a light.
Nor naturally closing the eyelids while gently and warmly enveloping them like shaggy hair.

{\i1}It devoured the eyeballs as if painting over it.{\i0}

From the "unfair world" that assaulted her.

Sasamaru: (What does this mean?)

Of course.

There is something existing where the world's eyes don't reach. I have no choice but to also call it "world."

It is a world different from the one everyone is used to call and is familiarized with.

A "blind spot of the world," detached and isolated.

The human eye also has blind spots.

It is called a blind spot because one cannot see it, but not seeing it does not mean there's nothing there.

The world is the same.

Sasamaru: (It's the same.)

The same as my home, cut off from society.

I wasn't connected to society.
I was cut off.
This is the society's blind spot.

It's a perception imprinted on me, who was born and raised there.

"Good kid" and "bad kid."

In this cut-off world, "this single common sense" was born.

It can even be called law or rule, the absolute code of that world.

Sasamaru: (Who decides this?)

Father: Saaaaaaasaaaaaaa.

In short, this is what I mean.

This is "her world."

Her world, where she chooses and decides.

No matter how disordered the laws of this single world, this painting, are, it's all as the god, the painter, wants.

Sasamaru: (But why did she seek?)

She obtained the world she desired. Then, why was she waiting for someone other than herself?

If this world is a single painting...
why was she waiting for "someone to complete the autumn for her"?

Why did this become the key to activate the curse?

If the "autumn" is the last brush stroke to complete this cursed painting, she should just do it herself.

Waka: A god, huh.

Her voice clearly reaches me, who is submerged in thoughts.

Waka: Do you think painters can really make the painting as they so want?

Sasamaru: Eh.

Waka: That is just pretension. Even the painter cannot control everything.

Sasamaru: Cannot control...everything?

Waka: It doesn't always go as the painter wants on top of the canvas.

Waka: It's not just in painting. Writers and musicians, too. If a person who creates something from nothing is called an artist, all artists have matters that are out of their reach regarding their work.

What does...it mean?

Matters out of reach.

Sasamaru: (I got it.)

These are the "withered trees."

The trees without clothes, growing as if surrounding this school.

Thinking about it, it's not all year around that the withered world is represented.

It's only the "autumn."

Both spring and summer wear thick clothes and gorgeously dress up. The winter too is as it naturally is, but only the autumn ignores this natural flow and exposes its naked body.

A world law nothing short of unnatural.

Summing up...

...this is a result "out of reach" even for her, the painter.

//text on screen
"Momiji"

She drew a landscape suitable for the autumn, but "it was out of her reach."

"It became like that."

So, she sought.

She sought someone to put clothes—Momiji, which means red leaves—on the withered trees.

At that moment, her "world" will be complete.

Sasamaru: (Of course, that's why...)

Therefore, she performed the "selection."

The sacred mountain for artists' aspirants.
It's common for not a single person to pass even among a thousand applicants.
This is the Yumemidori Academy.

But of course.

For this is the "selection of the personnel she desires."

Sasamaru: What you wanted was..."ones with a strong attachment to the autumn."

Summing up...

...she awaited for a person to put these feelings on the project and revive the "autumn."

Waka: Hmmm.

As if saying, "nice of you to notice," she mysteriously stares at me.

Waka: Exactly, you all weren't chosen based on merit.

I firmly...
bite my lips.

This is a pain as if my pride had been chopped up.

Waka: But many {\i1}who weren't chosen in the real sense{\i0} are enrolled at this school.

Sasamaru: Weren't chosen...in the real sense?

After her odd phrasing, I ask while parroting her words.

Waka: Exactly. There are ones chosen for reasons other than "attachment with autumn."

Waka: You were chosen for your deep bonds with myself.

"Sasamaru" and "Kikuyo."
Because we are her grandparents.

Sasamaru: (Then, perhaps Araragi and Harutsuge too.)

Waka: And there are ones pulled because you were chosen.

Sasamaru: Again...pulled?

Waka: Yes. Because you are yourselves.

Waka: For example, the family name "Tomono." It increased the overlapped strength because two people gathered. Even if it can't overcome the blood, it doesn't mean there is no effect.

Sasamaru: ...

The ones involved.
Pulled because we are the ones involved.

Sasamaru: (And who is it?)

The blue sisters.

The first ones who come to mind are them.

They have a connection with us.

We were in the same class in childhood.
Though we weren't close, we weren't distant either.

But this is in our present life.

Sasamaru: (That's right!)

Hiyo and I, the "Tomono"—which means companionship—of us two.

Sasamaru: The family name "Tomono."

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: The family name "Tomono" was, as you said, unable to oppose the blood stream and didn't become our surnames, but...

Sasamaru: ...perhaps it...had an effect in another way?

Waka: Hmm, you got sharper after the deceit was ripped off. Or are you perhaps standing your ground?

I knew it.

Then...

Tomono "伴" meaning companionship.
Jin "人" meaning person.
Nakarai "半" meaning half.

Jin and...

...Nakarai.

These two were chosen due to their names.

{\i1}Pulled{\i0} due to their names.

Sasamaru: My pride is in pieces.

We weren't chosen due to our talent.

We were brought here not due to effort, passion, or attitude, but due to an insignificant reason.

Waka: That is not all. Even if you can't tell with one glance, there are others "pulled." Just follow that thread.

Waka: Maybe everyone now in the school might be so.

Even my respect for the school's students...
is crushed.
Teared off.

The pride.

Sasamaru: Your pride...the student council.

The one for the "artists."

Waka: Pride, you say?

She sneers at my imploring gaze.

Waka: There is no meaning in the student council's existence. I said it. {\i1}You don't need to worry about it.{\i0}

Waka: That is a product created in order to not let others feel any artificiality in the tampering on this "place," that changed its form to a school.

Sasamaru: Oh yeah. I think I understand a little about the meaning of "this school's student council is a mysterious existence" that you spoke about the other day.

Hiyo: Why is that?

Sasamaru: You see, it was Waka-san who came when I caused that accident. Thinking calmly, isn't that the duty of the teachers?

Araragi: I sometimes see her giving instructions to the teachers.

Sasamaru: The student council?

Hiyo: You're not the only one having that impression of the student council, honey. There are even rumors about the head of the student council not changing for many generations.

Hiyo: Actually, the "transparent student council" is full of enigmas. I think there are very few people who actually grasp its real form.

Waka: A "place" for the creator—me—was necessary. That's all there is to it.

Sasamaru: That's why...

My vision becomes dark.

Sasamaru: That's why...there was no one in the student council room?

Her scornful smile is the answer.

Even my pride, crushed.

In the end, what do I want to do?

What am I standing here for?

Sasamaru: (I must save everyone.)

Is that all?

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

Are you now knocked down there because you {\i1}want{\i0} only that?

Sasamaru: (It's not about...wanting or not wanting. I "have to do this.")

Then, what is your wish?

Sasamaru: (Huh?)

What is your wish?

Sasamaru: (My wish? That's not relevant. Now isn't the time for...)

Really? Is it really so?

Then, o "bamboo."
"A Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself."

Did the "chrysanthemum," the "orchid," and the "plum blossom" pulled you out of that darkness out of sense of duty?

Sasamaru: (Eh?)

Wasn't it because "they wanted to get closer to you"?

Sasamaru: (...)

Didn't they extend their hands to you because they wanted to get closer to you, because they wanted you to feel better?

Wasn't this their wish?

Sasamaru: (...)

Or will you still keep saying, "they wouldn't do that for the likes of me"?

And you even received the dream's radiance of the orchid,
the plum blossom announced the spring,
and the chrysanthemum whispered words of love in your arms.

Will you still keep saying that?

Sasamaru: (...)

Then, let's ask.
Ask now once more.

What do you want to do, standing there now?

Sasamaru: (I...)

Yes.

Sasamaru: (I...!!)

The ruler of this blind spot.

The ruler of this cut-off world.

When I close my eyes and try to reminisce about the past, it's all pitch dark.

There's no light.
The sun has risen.
There's also electric light.
But there's no illumination nor light.

Aah, but there's a light.

//text on screen
......ave.

Father: Don't get carried away, Sasaaaaaaaaaa!!

Sasamaru: ...You said this, didn't you?

Sasamaru: "The strong ones are right."

//text on screen
I wa......ave.

Sasamaru: I'll win against you and prove that light is real!!

Wrong!!

I really...
really didn't want to say that.

The truth...

The truth is...

//text on screen
I want to save.

Like when they saved me.

Do you have the answer?

Sasamaru: (Yeah, it was a stupid question.)

Just be honest with yourself, you idiot.

Sasamaru: (Sorry there.)

I finally realize.
I finally remember.

At that time, I thought, "I want to save her."

That's why I took her hand.

As everyone took mine.

I wanted to stop.

I thought, "I want to stop her."

This is the real shape of the urge that stirred me up.

Sasamaru: (Then, think.)

What should I do to save her?

Superficial words won't reach her heart, which has sunk into twilight.

The means to put light into those stagnant dark-red eyes.

At this moment, I feel like someone is pushing my back.

Sasamaru: {\i1}So, most of the chosen ones have a connection{\i0}, eh.

My enlivened heart makes a smile appear at my mouth.

Waka: Yes. From the start, I was merely choosing the "necessary ones." This is nothing more than a sensation. I thought it would consist of the "ones with strong attachment to the autumn" element, the same as the other times, but...

Sasamaru: Isn't that too convenient?

Waka: What?

Sasamaru: The relationship starting with the two "Tomono." For you, it might feel like an absolute destiny. But for me, it's just a coincidence.

Waka: A coincidence, you say?

Sasamaru: Yeah, a coincidence. "Ones related to you were chosen. And ones related to them were pulled too."

Waka: Hmm. Then what?

To her provoking way of speaking, I say this.

Sasamaru: You said this, right? "You choose 'ones with strong attachment to the autumn.' Just as always."

Waka: You say you all gathered by chance?

Sasamaru: Exactly.

Waka: ...Ridiculous.

Waka-san sighs.

Waka: A coincidence of "ones reincarnated gathered by chance" does not exist. You are...

Sasamaru: You will acknowledge the attachment to my autumn.

Waka: ...What?

Sasamaru: They gathered. By chance. But it wasn't at this school.

Sasamaru: It was at that place where the "Four Noble Ones" were born!

Waka: The "Four Noble Ones"?

Sasamaru: The ones gathered there simply came to this school. And you chose "because they have a strong attachment to the autumn." Do not mistake the order. Do not forcefully change coincidence into inevitability.

Sasamaru: Aone and Aomai too. "They might be part of the ones pulled"? What a joke!

Sasamaru: They were treasuring...that 'morning color' day, the same as us.

Sasamaru: Well, they might be different from us. But that same day, that same moment, that autumn scenery...they kept treasuring deep in their hearts that landscape they saw with their own eyes.

That's right.

Waka-san, who seeks "ones with strong attachment to the autumn," will have to acknowledge this.

Sasamaru: Stop binding everything to {\i1}the previous life.{\i0} You have no right to deny the {\i1}present days.{\i0}

However...

...what comes back to my declaration is a scornful laugh.

Waka: That's a list of things indifferent to me. Where do you plan on escaping to by averting your eyes from this reality?

It's not indifferent.

{\i1}It starts now.{\i0}

It's the starting signal for my counterattack.

I believe.

I believe in her.

I must make this feeling clear.

Vague words like "do something" or "if possible" won't be enough.

It's not enough.
It's not enough at all.

Sasamaru: (I will save her!!)

Otherwise, I can't break through her "doubt."

Inside me, I will sublimate the feelings of "wanting to save" her until I'm disgusted with it.

//text on screen
...All right.

Waka: And where are you escaping to?

A sneer arrives at my running back.

I reflexively stomp the floor and distance myself from her.

What is piercing my chest as if tearing it off is a familiar "pain" I felt somewhere.

A "pain" that increases the acceleration and constricts my body.

Sasamaru: (Endure it just a little more.)

It's too early to die yet.

//text on screen
A Searcher Running Fast

There are many matters I must think about.

I'm sure the hints to explain it are in this school, her world.

The dormitory and even the road I'm now running are the school.

But it's not enough.

I must look around in every nook and cranny.

Here too.

Here too.

I'm sure there's a meaning.

I'm sure there's not a single object existing here that doesn't have a meaning.

I'll search for this meaning.
I'll find its relation.

Doubts appear one after another.

Her world.
The cut-off world.
And the "selection."

Sasamaru: (Why is it an "art school"?)

There might not be a reason.
If she says it's a coincidence, that's all there is to it.

It might have merely "settled with this shape" after the accumulation of what she has done, as the means to accomplish her objective.

Sasamaru: (But what if there's a reason to it?)

This might become the basis to break through her "doubt."

Because I know.

I know she's a kindhearted girl.

These feelings are worthy of believing in.

So, now, I'm running!!

Sasamaru: (What was that?)

It's not my memories.

It's not an "undone" memory...
from the Suu Sasa accumulated until now.

Sasamaru: (Don't tell me...is it the memories of "Tomono Sasamaru"?)

But why now, at this time?

Just like the "undone" memories, not even once did I remember them.

Sasamaru: (No.)

I...remembered it?

A sensation, melting into a scenery as if it was painted with ink.
This sensation is now being recalled.

But why now?

Sasamaru: (Is it...trying to appeal to something?)

From myself to myself.

From a me who's not me, to a me who is me.

And again, showing that the me who's not me is me.

Sasamaru: (I'll accept those feelings.)

Remember.
Remember.
Remember.

It's "myself," right?

If it's myself, then remember.

There is a blurred image.

Like searching inside a fog for a lost, fallen object.

You can't see it by focusing your eyes.

While struggling inside the fog, I fumble on the ground until I obtain a sensation in my hands.

Suddenly, there is a sensation as if something had hit my hand.

Grasp it firmly.
Firmly.

Do not ever let it go.

Almost praying, I bring it close to my eyes.

And what I see is...

Sasamaru: (An...origami?)

If I'm not mistaken, it is said that origami started in that era.

But paper was a valuable commodity at the time. Only the noble society had it.
And it's not the "origami" that we know. It was used to decorate letters and presents.

My wife, Kikuyo.

When we entered noble society, her polished talent amazed all.

"Origami."

The perception of "to wrap gifts" that was popular at the time was abandoned, giving birth to different shapes with the paper itself.

Look.

She, who was ridiculed as a barren woman, has such an amazing talent.

When we went under in the capital, we brought plenty of paper for it.

Kikuyo makes origami every time our granddaughter cries.

And every time, our granddaughter stops crying.

Our home overflowes with new shapes of origami as much as the number of times our granddaughter cries.

Eventually, our granddaughter too wants to make origami.

A child's pastime.

Imitating her grandmother, she creates the same shape Kikuyo makes by copying her. And every time, Kikuyo compliments her granddaughter.

And every time, our granddaughter happily makes another one, and another one.

The fact she gets better the more she makes must be because she inherited Kikuyo's blood.

Then, this origami represents the blood relationship between Kikuyo and her granddaughter.

It is displaying the bonds with her grandmother.

But on a certain day, her granddaughter makes a curious shape.

She isn't copying the shape of Kikuyo's origami.

It is the front and also the back.

A back despite being a front.

A ring without front nor back.

It's a "ring with an unending front side."

It is truly mysterious.

It is a profound mystery to make all tilt their heads.

It's a play in which you twist one end of a long and narrow cut paper and paste it on the opposite end.

Doing this, there's no longer front nor back.

If you follow the paper's surface, you end up on the opposite side after one lap.

Kikuyo is unbecomingly in high spirits.

So, she is this much happy that her granddaughter made a new shape with her own hands.

So, origami really is something that shows the bonds between Kikuyo and her granddaughter.

I see it.

I pick it up.

I again start running.
I start running without sparing a single clue.

Sasamaru: (Huh? Speaking of which, this school's structure has...)

The moment I notice {\i1}this,{\i0} I again have confidence that Waka-san is a person worthy of believing in.

But...

Sasamaru: (The person herself doesn't think this.)

I lack the materials to break through this.

There are still too many things that I don't know.

I finally arrive at our unforgettable water mill.

Sasamaru: (So, here too...is like that.)

Just as it is an unforgettable place for us, it has some meaning for Waka-san too.

Outside, the only place left to look around is this pond.

It's a pond large enough to be mistaken for a lake if you look only at its size.

Named "mirror pond."
My own self is reflected in the water's surface.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

At this moment, I feel I finally know how to insert the puzzle piece that I didn't know how to insert until now.

Sasamaru: Ah!

And again.

A lost object emerges beyond the fog.

A feeling of grasping something at the tip of my stretched hand.
Now!

I see it.

The whereabouts of the lost object that's gradually clearing its contours.

This is...

Sasamaru: (It's...Waka-san?)

Kikuyo and her granddaughter.

If origami is the bond between grandmother and grandchild...

...the bonds between grandfather—me—and grandchild are {\i1}here.{\i0}

My grandchild often drew pictures.

Drew pictures even before starting origami.

Because paper is a valuable commodity.

The paper we brought is about to run out.

Maybe if we were living in the capital, but now we have no means of obtaining it.

My granddaughter understands this. Being careful as to not waste paper, she draws paintings before making the origami.

It should nurture the mental image of what she wants to make.

She must have been happy that Kikuyo was delighted.

My granddaughter is not mimicking by watching. She is trying to create something original.

She's drawing on the sand with a stick she found.

She elaborates and elaborates, and finally extends her hand to the origami when it is going as she wishes.

If it doesn't go as she wishes, she repeatedly draws, erases it, draws, and erases it on the sand every day, even if it takes days and months.

Honestly, I have no inkling of what she's drawing on the sand.

I tilt my head with "well, I wonder what she will create today."

Thinking back upon it, lately, my grandchild has repeatedly tried to create something, then failing, and back to painting, and back to the origami.

This repeatedly failed origami is so crumpled that you can't tell where she has folded.

But my grandchild shows no signs of giving up.

I wonder if there's something she wants so much to make.

Then, I decide to teach painting to my grandchild.

It's a skill I learned long ago. It should be a bit useful.

Or so I thought. My grandchild is getting into it more than I expected.

After that, drawing on the sand has become our daily routine.

It appears my grandchild has the talent to fold but not to paint.

No matter how much time passes, I can't tell what she's trying to draw.

But I praise her.

I keep praising her every time she makes a dubious shape on the sand.

Because this time I spend with my granddaughter is an irreplaceable one for me.

Then, on a certain day, my grandchild hands over an origami to me.

I couldn't tell what was drawn in the sand painting—draft—that she used to make this, but it seems the mental image was already completed inside my grandchild.

This object that my grandchild holds out to me with a radiant smile...

...has the shape of my face.

I'm so happy that I cry like a child.

I tightly hold my granddaughter, "so, that's what it was."

So, if origami is proof of the bond between grandmother and grandchild...

..."to draw" is proof of the bonds between the grandfather—me—and my grandchild.

Yes, between me and my grandchild.

The bonds with "Waka."

I vaguely sensed why my daughter gave this name to my grandchild.

So, I have been calling my grandchild "Waka," which means young.

I thought, "this is what I should call our home's young princess."

I "doubted" her.

But I want to...

I want to believe in my dear daughter.

This is the...!

Sasamaru: (Perhaps this is the...)

...Aah, of course.

Waka: Over with the game of tag?

I feel an almost burning gaze on my back.

Waka: The nerve to play tag against a real demoness.

Sasamaru: Oh, so, you too can smile.

Waka: ...Hmm?

Sasamaru: Waka-san, you don't smile much. Interesting, that's good. You can smile normally.

Waka: ...Are you aware of the situation?

Sasamaru: Yeah. Haha, it's odd.

Sasamaru: But I'm kinda relieved. I'm relieved. "So, Waka-san too smiles." It's odd, though.

Sasamaru: I think a girl is more dazzling when she smiles.

Waka: How pitiful. Did you lose your mind after getting cornered, old geezer?

Sasamaru: Yeah, you're right. I'm an old geezer.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: I am the old geezer, the "Hanasaka Jiji."

I made the flowers bloom.

All this happened because I said to put red leaves—Momiji—on all the withered trees around the school.

I will now take on this responsibility.

I will now show my feelings of wanting to save her.

Sasamaru: (I'll show you.)

//text on screen
Grateful Wise Man

Sasamaru: Thank you.

Waka: Huh?

Sasamaru: Thank you for telling me that painful story.

Well, here I go.

Sasamaru: I will never waste your feelings of telling this story.

Waka: You got it all wrong. I...

Sasamaru: I didn't got it wrong. I finally understand what I should do.

Sasamaru: No, it's not that. I realized what I can do for you.

Waka: Stop being arrogant. There's nothing you {\i1}can do for{\i0} me.

Sasamaru: Even so!

Sasamaru: I found something I {\i1}can do for{\i0} you.

What is necessary is not to criticize her.
Nor to sympathize with her.
Much less to forgive her.

First, this is just barking up the wrong tree.

Waka-san's "doubt."
Her "doubt" toward this world.

This isn't "anger," nor "resentment," nor "hatred," nor "grief."

But...

It is also "anger," "resentment," "hatred," and "grief."

But...

If I interpret her world as "anger," "resentment," "hatred," and "grief," several inconsistencies appear.

Sasamaru: (I'll cut through it later.)

My feelings are settled.

Well, take up the brush, the weapon.

And paint your picture.

For I am an artist.

Sasamaru: I believe.

Sasamaru: I believe...in the "kindness" you accepted despite averting your eyes.

Waka: Hmm.

Waka-san's eyes are looking at me, almost glaring.

Waka: So, you'll cling to kindness.

Sasamaru: Yeah, I will cling.

Sasamaru: Because I know you're kind, Waka-san.

Waka: ...!?

"It's all right."
I'm confident in this.

Because, in this world, in this school that was born through several inevitabilities and coincidences...
there are too many points I cannot agree with.

Investigate these contradictions.
Turn everything you don't agree with into something you can.
Dispel the doubts and grasp what's beyond it.

Grasp it!!

Sasamaru: You were looking for a person who could do something about what even you could not, weren't you?

Waka: Yes. To call a painter a god is just an illusion.

Sasamaru: Then, why does the "student council manual" exist?

Waka: ...What?

Sasamaru: "Having no choice" means you "also couldn't say anything," right?

Sasamaru: You couldn't order "do this," much less ask "I want you to do this" or request.

Sasamaru: So, you just waited. And you kept inviting ones with a strong attachment to the autumn, wishing for the day to eventually arrive.

Waka: What about it?

Sasamaru: Then, the "student council manual" must have been an obstacle. Someone following it would mean resisting the world you desire.

Waka: How do you know that?

Sasamaru: Well, I wonder why.

But of course.

{\i1}I shouldn't remember any of it.{\i0}

Waka: You cannot escape just because you followed it. That is nothing more than a makeshift.

Sasamaru: I'm not talking about that, Waka-san.

Sasamaru: Makeshift or not, why did you create that? Why does something unnecessary to your desired world exist?

Waka: I didn't...

Sasamaru: You did. {\i1}It is{\i0} your heart's brake.

Waka: The heart's brake...you say?

Sasamaru: Yes. You couldn't devote yourself to it. You couldn't completely desire the world you wanted.

Sasamaru: The result of this is the manual.

Waka: You're being ridiculous.

Sasamaru: What is ridiculous? Aren't you even now treasuring many memories?

Waka: Memories...you say?

Sasamaru: Yes. You can deny it as much as you want. But looking at this school, I can immediately see that the denial is a lie.

When I look at this school, I can feel a certain kind of resemblance.

The demoness Momiji loved the capital's landscape.

Then, she drifted to Togakushi and had her child.

But this is the unforgettable land in Waka-san's memories.

Things that no longer exist might still exist.

Something might have changed because this is inside her memories.

Each one of the handrails can't be exactly the same even in their fine details.

There might be slight changes in the shape she saw, exactly as her trembling memories.

There must be something that only its striking parts were included.

Also, there might be made-up places she created with her power.

But there's something certain.

This school...

Waka: You say that I wished for it? You say it's because I'm treasuring the memories?

Sasamaru: Exactly.

Waka: You're ridiculous.

Sasamaru: How am I ridiculous? This world is depicted exactly as in your memories, and so clearly.

Waka: ...

Waka-san holds her tongue.

//text on screen
The more I remember, the more odious.

Sasamaru: (Now!)

It's a single matter that even she can't do anything about it.

Sasamaru: Do you know of a Momiji scenery with a butterfly of light fluttering about?

Despite creating everything she wanted...

...she could never "replicate the autumn scenery."
There is a reason for this.

Sasamaru: The truth is, it's not the first time I've seen that scenery.

Waka: But of course. Once, together with myself, you watched it with your own ey...

Sasamaru: Not that. You are lumping together the me you know and the me standing here and now.

I don't plan on denying it.
For her, the fact that I am her "grandfather" doesn't change.

Of course, I want to talk back.

"I am myself."
"Regardless of who my past self was, I am myself."

But I think that this is no reason to deny everything about my past self.

This would mean to deny even "myself who is here and now after all that."

It's no different from running away because it's an unpleasant or unbearable past.

What I have accomplished.
What I have done.
I think I should stand here while accepting all this.

Father: Stop screwing around!!

When I close my eyes and try to reminisce about the past, it's all pitch dark.

There's no light.
The sun has risen.
There's also electric light.
But there's no illumination nor light.

Aah, but there's a light.

Sasamaru: (There's a light, dear father.)

Sasamaru: (It's...dazzling.)

It's very dazzling.

Sasamaru: (It's...warm.)

It's very warm, but...

...the light...

...that light...

Are you trying to erase that light with this house's...with our darkness?

Father: ...Huh?

I myself couldn't believe my actions.

Father: Y...you bastard...

I accepted it.
I recognized it.
I moved forward.

The method I chose at that time was such, but...

...I was not taken by the flow.

I, of my own free will, accepted my own circumstances and decided that.

So, I won't deny the fact that she recognizes me as her grandfather.

It's a different issue about how I myself perceive and recognize her.

On top of all this, I tell her this.

Sasamaru: I didn't remember it. I...no, we "recalled" it.

Waka: "Recalled"?

Sasamaru: Yes...no, this isn't quite right. More accurately, we "found it out." My previous life, my past, what kind of individual I was, what I accomplished, and what I did.

Waka: Your point?

Sasamaru: I should know only "your past" that you showed me.

Waka: However, you noticed it, didn't you? That you are my grandfather.

Sasamaru: Yeah, that's right. But I'm not talking about that.

Waka: ...?

Sasamaru: I have seen the "Momiji of memories" only once.

Now, I will thrust onto her.

Sasamaru: You {\i1}rewound the time{\i0}, didn't you?

Waka-san opens her eyes wide at these words.

However, I myself correct these words.

Sasamaru: No, it's not that. More correctly, it was looping. We were {\i1}replaced.{\i0}

Waka: Replaced, you say?

Sasamaru: Yes, exactly. What was replaced was the "position."

Waka: ...!

A Möbius loop doesn't end no matter how far you go.

Therefore, it has no front or back side.

If you had to choose, both are the front and both are the back side.

It is a tape adjoined forever and ever.

I touched on her memories.

It's a curious ring she made with origami someday.

It's a play in which you twist one end of a long and narrow cut paper and paste it on the opposite end.

Doing this, there's no longer front nor back.

If you follow the paper's surface, you end up on the opposite side after one lap.

"Waka-san treasures her memories."

I believe this.

Therefore, I arrive at the answer.

"This world is built from her memories."

And also, this world's "structure."

This world, spread out with this structure as the basis.

We are standing on it.

And there are countless objects in this world.

However, this world's objects we believe "to exist there" are actually nothing more than "shadows."

The "real ones" are on the opposite side.

Because the creator, Waka-san, is on the opposite side.

After assuming this, I notice this world's structure.

The objects she created are thick, as if representing the strength of her feelings.

No, they're so thick that the "shadows" projected on the opposite side are just like the real object.

Everything we have obtained since arriving at this school isn't "real."

Everything is a "shadow," including herself.

Now comes the main point.

Since the two sides are adjoined, time is flowing like this.

In short, the "future" is in that direction, but...

...she is going in the opposite direction.

So, she always appears to be on the same time as us. She can take the objects as "supplies."

While walking together with the time, top and bottom have reversed many a time. But the two, moving at the same speed, will never meet each other.

So, we don't notice.

This is the structure of this cut-off world.

Although, backtracking doesn't mean that Waka-san is going back to the past.

Yes, she is going against the flow of time, but her time {\i1}is not moving to begin with.{\i0}

Since that moment, her time has stopped.

She is merely moving us, who are following the moving time while always being on the "exactly opposite point," along with the halted time.

Otherwise, the reason for her to {\i1}have kept living unchanged{\i0} until today wouldn't hold true.

Then, what happens if she forcefully switches our "positions"?

She is always on the exact opposite point, and, to us, she is in the past. So, we would move to the past.

And we have to start over from that time.

Sasamaru: This is the "replacement."

I tell her.

Araragi: Maybe Hiyo-chan doesn't think so?

Sasamaru: Why?

Araragi: Don't you say that when you're not enjoying the "now"?

Sasamaru: Which means, Hiyo is enjoying the now?

Araragi: That's not it. Sometimes you're always engrossed. Maybe that's why she never thought of it that way.

Sasamaru: ?

Araragi: Hey, when you're so absorbed in something, you don't think much if it's fun or harsh, right? You think that when you have calmed down. That's why you look back on the past.

Sasamaru: Ah...well, I think so.

Araragi: And you, Sasamaru-chan? Do you think, "if I could return to those days"?

Sasamaru: I? I...

Sasamaru: Yes. Everyone does think that once. "If I could go back to the past." This is close to a wish.

Close but different.

Definitively different.

Sasamaru: If it were switched, it'd be the position we were in. Summing up, we would follow the time back then. For us, the "events that should have passed" will have "been undone." We will forget about it.

Sasamaru: The "position" will have priority. You may call it a "compelling force."

We are replaced just as we were.

But everything we have experienced and learned, whether we remember it with the mind or the body, all this {\i1}will be pulled over there if the position moves.{\i0}

We will be {\i1}forced into ourselves at that point in time.{\i0}

Sasamaru: More accurately, we aren't "forgetting." No doubt we are "remembering" and "experiencing" it. But we can't "take it out" due to the "position's" compelling force.

Yes.
Exactly as an actor.

As actors performing on the stage unfolding on this school.

It's still the "introduction," but there is no "twist."
"It's still X month X day but it cannot talk about Y month Y day."
This is what I mean.

Waka: Why?

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Waka: Why do you know that?

One is this "mirror pond."

When I saw myself reflected in the water's surface, I thought, "what if."

It's the discomfort I felt in Waka-san when I was in the student council room.

The fact that left and right were reversed.

The moment I noticed that phenomenon, like a reflection in the mirror, the several doubts I had so far became a fragment to formulate a single hypothesis.

But I'm not talking about this.

Sasamaru: I noticed you "doubted," transcending the "anger," "resentment," "hatred," "grief"...and even the "curse."

Sasamaru: So, I too doubted...the state of this world.

And the flow of time, and even the natural fact of the objects existing there.

Sasamaru: Then, I believed, "you treasure your memories."

I believed in her kindness.

Sasamaru: Then, I saw it. I finally saw it.

Waka: F...foolish!

Sasamaru: If this is hitting the mark, I think a fool is not all that bad.

//text on screen
The more I remember, the more odious.
But lovable.

Waka: Stop messing with me! I-in the first place, how...{\i1}how can you remember that!?{\i0}

So, she noticed.

But of course. She would notice it sooner or later.

Because I am throwing at her all the answers I have obtained.

Waka: As you said, the compelling force is absolute. Everything will "be undone." So, its essence is no different from a repetition.

Waka: Despite this...why is it only you!?

Sasamaru: That's simple.

Say it.
Say it.

"I want to save you."

Sasamaru: Because I have feelings to not lose to that.

Waka: What the...

My place for creation was always here, the water mill.

Sasamaru: I was always making this painting.

So, this painting was here, beside the mirror pond.

Waka: Eh.

Sasamaru: Surely, to show it to you.

Waka: What?

Sasamaru: It's strange, isn't it? {\i1}I have only seen this scenery once, but the painting is already complete.{\i0}

Sasamaru: I learned about my past life while talking to you. But, of course, I didn't paint this while following the memories of my past life.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: So, Waka-san. I knew you were "replacing." I finally arrived at the answer when I investigated thoroughly "why I drew this painting."

Sasamaru: And also the reason for "why you performed the replacement."

Waka: Wh...at?

Sasamaru: I have a problem with this phrasing, but I will say it as a matter of convenience.

Sasamaru: "We did three cycles in this world, in this school."

Sasamaru: I don't like this "cycle" word, but I can't think of any other expression. I'll later receive any scolding for treating the path everyone lived on as a "cycle."

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: The first cycle. We failed at the Ayanashisai.

Sasamaru: I'm sure it was a "result just like always." The same result, repeated dozens, hundreds...thousands of times.

Sasamaru: But at that time, you said this.

Waka: I finally realized who you are.

Sasamaru: You realized "who" I am. You realized that I am your grandfather, even with my changed appearance.

Sasamaru: That I am "Sasamaru."

Sasamaru: You wouldn't think this if it were just me. If it were just one person, it might be simply a coincidence. The same if it were one more person or a partner.

Sasamaru: Yes, it's {\i1}Hiyo.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Hiyo, who was in this school for a longer time than myself. You noticed she is your grandmother.

Hiyo: Yes. She called me "granny."

Sasamaru: The grandfather and the grandmother, both had gathered. "This isn't a mere coincidence." When you thought this, didn't you feel some kind of premonition like "now is the time"?

Sasamaru: And, this is just my conjecture, but maybe Araragi is your father?

Waka: Father!

Sasamaru: And Harutsuge. Regarding her, it was after you realized that I'm your grandfather, though.

Hiyo: And she also calls Harutsuge-san a "hero."

A "hero."

Yes, the "hero" the Imperial Court sent to defeat the demoness Momiji.

Sasamaru: A premonition of "perhaps." You felt an inevitability at the accumulated coincidences.

Sasamaru: So, you "replaced" it.

Sasamaru: Once more, in order to arrive at the result you so desire. This was the "first cycle."

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Maybe it was the first time you thought, "let's repeat this year until it succeeds." Until now, I'm sure you were betting on the "next" one. If this fails, then the next. If it fails again...and so on, endlessly.

Sasamaru: Because last year, "it ended in failure for you, just as before."

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: And then, the "second cycle."

...Huh?

E...rr...

Sasamaru: (What...was I doing?)

Sasamaru: What we must keep in mind is that you "couldn't do anything about it."

Sasamaru: You cannot interfere with the intention of making it arrive at the desired result. You also cannot suggest, propose, or induce. The only thing you can do is accept the end result.

Sasamaru: Still, the same events would occur like that. Everyone would repeat their actions at the "first cycle" and "second cycle." You will get the same result.

Sasamaru: So, at the start of the second cycle, you were waiting there. You caused a situation different from the first cycle with your own hands.

Sasamaru: Am I right, Waka-san?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Then, I'll talk some more. For example...

Waka: ...That's correct.

//text on screen
The more I remember, the more odious.
But lovable.
The scenery that day was so beautiful.

Waka: Yes! Yes! Yes! Everything is just as you said!!

Waka: But the "third cycle"...I didn't do anything! I haven't done anything to change the result!

Waka: Those who can intentionally change their actions are only those who know about the "replacement." If they don't, they will take the same actions as last time!

Waka: Despite this, why is the result different!? Why are we talking about this!? Why has it come to this!?

Waka: I wanted to make you realize it! I wanted to make you, who said those stupid things, realize the truth of this world!

Sasamaru: So, you started the third cycle despite having your objective completed at the second one?

Waka: Yes! It was supposed to simply repeat! No "second cycle" nor "third cycle." It was supposed to once more repeat the withering of the world!!

Waka: Despite this, why!!?

It's...

Sasamaru: It's because I remembered, Waka-san.

Sasamaru: You once asked me this.

Sasamaru: "Is kindness something we are instinctively endowed with?" Do you remember?

Waka: Of course! That's why you are here now.

Sasamaru: At that time, I said this: "I think kindness is something humans are instinctively endowed with."

Waka: Yes, of course. And what do you think now?

Sasamaru: "What"? My opinion hasn't changed. "Kindness is something humans are instinctively endowed with."

Waka: ...What?

Sasamaru: If you ask if I merely want to think this, then you're right. Just like I said at that time, I won't deny it.

Sasamaru: No, I cannot deny these words...but...

Sasamaru: There were ones who pulled it out for me.

Sasamaru: There were ones who pulled out the meaning of encounters from the human who didn't know about it.

Sasamaru: So, I think it is something humans are instinctively endowed with.

Waka: Didn't you simply learn about it? Isn't it learning from experience?

Sasamaru: Yes, I learned. Yeah, they were always my teachers.

Sasamaru: But...

I yearned.

Sasamaru: I was always, always yearning for that white light.

I'm not saying that I didn't have anything.

Even the empty me had feelings of yearning.

It was something I would never obtain, but I found out thatthis white light was warm.

I knew it was beyond my reach no matter how much I wanted to touch it.

If this is the whereabouts of affection...

Sasamaru: I'm sure I also have it.

I don't want to deny this.

It's nothing more than a desire, but I want to deny anything but this.

Hiyo: Please be my friend.

Because it's rude to those words.

To her, who chose me.

Harutsuge: Your actions are truly splendid!

Araragi: W-weren't we already friends!?

Because I haven't rewarded them at all.

Yes, I am thickheaded, a big idiot, and I have done nothing but receiving from them, but...
I will be forever indebted to them, but...

...even so, I...

Harutsuge: You said "Four Noble Ones." Then, the bamboo's sin is also the plum blossom's sin.

Araragi: And also the orchid's.

Hiyo: Because you're a Sasa far, far more like a bamboo than itself.

Because I'm their "friend."

I want to be proud of this.

If I chose the latter at Waka-san's question, I would become a person who "is only being given."

Not a friend not anything. A person who simply is at their side.
A person who simply clings to them.

Harutsuge: Stop clinging to me with the same eyes as those days!!

I was scolded even by our elder sister.

So, I say.

They "pulled it out."
They "pulled it out for me."

It wasn't something "given" to me, who didn't have anything.
I thought that "I didn't have anything," and they taught me "this is not true."

Sasamaru: I think humans are kind beings. Though, I was taught this.

Waka: Even after taking a straight look at the people again withering?

Sasamaru: Yes, that's right.

Waka: Why do you try to cling to that hope? Look at reality. There's only one possible answer here.

What are you talking about?

Don't make me laugh.

Sasamaru: Don't make light of them. Where in this school is the result you wished for?

Waka: ...

Waka: Good for you.

Sasamaru: What?

Waka: You were "able to start over." Among the desires humans harbor, to redo the past is an extremely strong one. Although it was incidental, it came true for you.

Waka: And now, the future that was supposed to repeat itself has changed, and we are here now.

Sasamaru: {\i1}Good for me?{\i0}

Waka: Yes, it was, wasn't it?

I say this while staring straight at Waka-san's eyes.

Sasamaru: I am very unhappy.

Waka: What did you say?

Sasamaru: I am unhappy. I am really unhappy that it was "replaced" like this.

This is the only matter I can declare.

Sasamaru: It's for the same reason. The same as when you asked, "is kindness something humans are instinctively endowed with?"

Sasamaru: I keep making mistakes, and I'm a "still behind" worthless man, but still, there's something I have piled up in the days so far.

Sasamaru: It's a mere pebble, but I can brag that I've been piling them up one by one.

Sasamaru: This mountain of pebbles representing "my present self" is still small and doesn't have enough height, but...
it's not a useless effort. This mountain won't crumble.
No one can destroy it.

Sasamaru: As long as I don't break down, this mountain will never crumble.

Waka: Your point?

Sasamaru: I have a reason that I must protect it.

Waka: Sure. It's because you can brag. Because you want to say, "I too had my hardships."

Sasamaru: Wrong!!

I scream.

Sasamaru: To "return to the past" means to waste the favor of those who raised me.

Sasamaru: They got angry for me, scolded me. To "undo" this is the same as trampling on it.

Sasamaru: I was able to learn because I failed. I was able to think, "I'll never do this again," because I regretted it. To return to the past with the experiences while ignoring this important time is just...

Sasamaru: So, I'm disgusted that I returned to the past because of your arbitrary demonstration.

Waka: Is that...the reason for you to remember?

Sasamaru: I wasn't aware of it. But I remembered. I remembered it.

Sasamaru: At the start of the third cycle, do you remember that I took your hand?

Sasamaru: I didn't take that action in the second cycle. You were surprised. And so was I. I didn't believe in my own actions.

Sasamaru: But now I can. Now I know. I {\i1}remembered{\i0} it.

Sasamaru: {\i1}I remembered that I thought of wanting to save you.{\i0}

Waka: Wha...

Waka-san opens both her eyes wide.

Waka: S-save me...you say?

Sasamaru: Yes.

I answer...
strongly and without hesitation.

Sasamaru: May I ask something, Waka-san?

Sasamaru: This school's event that reminds of the autumn, the Ayanashisai. Of course, you know that the Ayanashisai has this implicit rule, right?

Sasamaru: The Ayanashisai consists of the program from the students, the artists' aspirants. So, different from usual school festivals, "no one needs to tell the project's contents."

Waka: W-what about it?

Sasamaru: Why did you create this rule?

Waka: What?

Sasamaru: Why did you try to protect the artists' dignity?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: It's not just this one. This school...this world is filled with rules to protect the dignity of the artists. Why did you go this far to protect it?

Waka: W-well...this school is a sacred mountain for artists' aspirants, so, to make it more like it...

It crumbled.

It finally crumbled.

Sasamaru: That's the result. It's the result that followed because you worked to protect the artists' dignity, created the rules for this, and kept protecting the school.

Sasamaru: From the start, were you planning to turn this school into a sacred mountain for artists? You weren't, right?

Waka: Uggh.

It's now.
Now's the time.

Sasamaru: The answer is already here, Waka-san. But I want you to tell it with your own mouth.

Sasamaru: Waka-san. {\i1}Why is that?{\i0}

Please, let me hear from your mouth.

I want you to tell me your real feelings.

You're tired of lying to yourself, am I right?

Waka: ...

Waka: ...Ngh...

Waka: Ugh...nngh.

But Waka-san is biting her lips.

{\i1}She's biting her lips and enduring.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

Waka: What...are you talking about? Hmpf. I have no idea.

Sasamaru: Okay.

I have no choice, then.

You cannot turn back.
But of course. You too have built up so much that you cannot turn back.

Your tears that day weren't so unimportant.

But...

Just as you cannot turn back, I too cannot.

So...!

Sasamaru: Then, open your eyes and look!!

Waka: ...!!

Sasamaru: I put my soul into painting this. As a painter, there's nothing sadder than having to explain everything, but...

Sasamaru: ...should I clearly put into words what this painting is?

Waka: ...

For one moment, Waka-san shows a gesture of hesitation, but...

//text on screen
The more I remember, the more odious.
But lovable.
The scenery that day was so beautiful.

Waka: ...No...it's fine.

Eventually, she breaks down crying.

Sasamaru: You really were able to paint it, weren't you?

My whisper...

...surely is so heavy that it can't be called a whisper.

Sasamaru: You really didn't need to wait for "someone." Am I right?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Why...

Sasamaru: Why didn't that hand hold the brush? Why didn't you, with your own hands, give shape to the landscape that kept blooming in your heart?

Waka: ...Because it's...impossible.

Sasamaru: But why?

Waka: Because it's too beautiful!

//text on screen
The more I remember, the more odious.
But lovable.
The scenery that day was so beautiful.
"So, I waited for someone to give shape to that scenery for me."

Words dancing in the air, as if they had overflowed.

So, these are your real feelings.

Waka: I cannot paint anymore. I cannot.

Because you resented?
Because you hated?
Because you cursed?
Because you...doubted?

Waka: But I didn't want to taint it. Anything but taint that day's scenery.

Sasamaru: So, that's why this school became an "art school."

Waka: W-wrong! It's to revive the autumn.

Sasamaru: Still insisting on that, eh.

It's so sad.

And so lovable.

Sasamaru: It's not wrong. You wanted to see it. You wanted to see that day's scenery once more.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: You were simply waiting for a person to show it.

She, trying to cling to a lacquered "white," is so lovely.

The same as the fake white of that day.
A real light was so dazzling.

Unable to believe that 'I may stay there.'

Simply yearning while clasping one's arms around the knees.

Sasamaru: Will you still insist I'm wrong?

Waka: ...

It's okay.

Because...

Because, you really...
you know it better than anyone, right?

That "white," which you created the blind spot.

Why did that happen?
Why did you {\i1}cause{\i0} that?

You cursed the world.
But you didn't want to.

{\i1}So, you closed your eyes.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (You stopped it.)

You stopped the demoness' curse about to overflow into the world.

She couldn't stop the swelling-up hatred.

But she didn't want to curse this world.

Sasamaru: Wasn't Hiyo someone important to you?

Waka: She is important. But {\i1}that's exactly why there are no exceptions.{\i0}

She said that. But the truth is, there was resistance.

As we expressed it as an "illness," the "curse" too has individual differences in its progress.

But only the red team clearly had a delay in the curse's encroachment.

It was before following the student council manual.

When the discomfort's rumors spread and the shocking truth was told at the gymnasium, we couldn't really tell why everyone was so in panic.

This is the resistance from Waka-san.

Her hesitation toward us, who are "relatives" to her.

...Thanks. And one of us was even the "hero" you spoke of.

//text on screen
..............................not.

//text on screen
...............must not.

//text on screen
You must not grant the "Crying Devil's" wish...

So, that was her voice.

The true feelings of her, who tried to resist the uncontrollable and swelling-up feelings.

"Someone, stop it."

In the first place...

...that old story itself was her warning.

Contradiction.
That's what this world is.

{\i1}Humans themselves.{\i0}

Sasamaru: (You are so sad, and so lovable.)

I can be proud of my present self thinking this.

Sasamaru: This painting is the scenery I saw. Is it the same as the one you saw?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Is it?

The mouth...the eyes closed since that day now open.

Waka: How...beautiful.

These words are the answer.

Waka: Aah, ahh, yes. This scenery is exactly...

What is there is relief.

Her expression is telling the relief, as if having finally returned to her lovely home.

Sasamaru: (So, {\i1}let's start.{\i0})

Well, let's start over, Waka-san.

Sasamaru: That's not right.

And then, I...

With the lighter I take out of my pocket, I set fire to the painting.

Waka: Wha...!

Sasamaru: It's not this, is it?

Waka: Wha...what are you saying...put that out!

Sasamaru: There's no need to.

Waka: You idiot. A-anyway, hurry! The fire! Put that out!

Trying to put out the bursting fire, Waka-san takes the cloth I used to cover the painting and starts putting the fire out.

With an expression of impatience unfit for her.

I hold back her hand.

Waka: Let me go!

Sasamaru: No way.

Thanks.
I'm happy you said that.

Waka: It's an important painting to you too, isn't it!? Didn't you paint it!?

Thanks for getting impatient.

Sasamaru: Yes. That's why this painting is {\i1}merely important to me.{\i0}

Waka: Eh.

Sasamaru: So, what I must put out is not the fire. It's the rude painting drawn by tracing my memories.

Waka: What...are you saying...

Sasamaru: I thought about it. At the second cycle, we saw the memories of our past selves. I saw the memories of "Sasamaru"...and Hiyo saw those of "Kikuyo."

Sasamaru: I'm sure the trigger was the revival of "an autumn that shouldn't exist." Touching on your wish that composes this world, only Hiyo and I, who once saw that scenery together, were triggered. Then, the door to memories opened.

Sasamaru: But I didn't see it on the third cycle. Despite having revived the "autumn" again.

Sasamaru: After thinking about what the difference was, I found it out. It's not for Kikuyo and Sasamaru. For Hiyo and I, this isn't the scenery we recall in "autumn."

Sasamaru: I wasn't affected a second time. Even if I had forgotten...and couldn't take it out, I had already experienced it.

Sasamaru: But I wasn't completely unaffected. Thanks to that, I strove to remember and remember, and could take out Sasamaru's memories. But still...it was weak.

Waka: ...Weak?

Sasamaru: Yeah, weak. Like this painting, remaining in my memories but not in my heart.

Sasamaru: Because it isn't this, is it?

Waka: Eh.

Sasamaru: You said it, didn't you? "It's beautiful." "It's so beautiful."

I fully fill my chest with air and tell her.

Sasamaru: Stop screwing around.

Waka: Wha...

Sasamaru: It's not just "beautiful," is it? It's not something to sum up with the word "beautiful," is it?

Sasamaru: Because the scenery inside you exists only inside you.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: I might have seen the same scenery. I might have seen it together with you.

But...

Sasamaru: {\i1}I am not you.{\i0}

Sasamaru: No matter how much I struggle, it will never be the scenery seen with your eyes.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: What you felt when you saw that scenery, and what is projected every time you recall it. I cannot ever reproduce these. I realized this after drawing it.

Sasamaru: So, this painting is rude to you.

"Yumemidori," which is another word for butterfly and literally means 'dreaming bird.'
This is the butterfly's alias.

Like the chrysalises which are us will eventually become butterflies and fly the skies...
spreading the beautiful wings and charming everyone.

This is the school's emblem, symbolizing the schoolhouse sending butterflies into the world.

It's a certain room in the school called "fate of the abandoned."

No one normally pays attention; it is a room that has changed into a storeroom.

It is a graveyard of dreams.

Ones supposed to be born from passion and faith.

But it didn't go well. The creator lost interest in them. They were forgotten.
The ones that got distanced from the creator.

The ones unable to become a "project."

These ones, {\i1}unable to have a shape{\i0}...
are your roots.

That butterfly secretly emerging in that room...

...is representing your feelings of not completing the "autumn" with your own hands.

So...

So, here.

Sasamaru: You will paint it.

Waka: Wha...eh?

Waka-san is blinking her eyes with surprise.

Sasamaru: You will give shape to your scenery. Only you can do this.

Waka: Wha...what are you saying? I-I can't...

Sasamaru: It's I who should ask, "what are you saying?"

Sasamaru: "Kindness should just wither"? Hah, don't make me laugh, you spoiled child.

Waka: Wha...

Sasamaru: Don't create a school and wait for {\i1}someone to do it for you.{\i0} Go and paint it yourself.

My body is already at its limit.

A strain.

The distortion arising in my body...
arising in my existence is denying the way I am.

I've experienced it once.
My body remembers how much is the limit.

I won't let that pain "be undone."

//text on screen
LIAR

I'm not lying.

I'll live as an honest person.
I'll keep being an honest person.
I have no attachment to this world...
that denies the act of living honestly.

So, I beg you, Waka-san.

Sasamaru: (Destroy this worthless world.)

A blue sky extending when I look up.

The while clouds happily swimming in the sky, the soft wind casually dancing in the air.

Sasamaru: (You're the liar.)

Well, just one more stand.

Sasamaru: This school has a fantastic student council president called Waka.

Waka: Huh?

Sasamaru: Despite having only one member, she says that she's the "student council president's errand girl." A cute student council president hiding her lonely feelings.

Waka: What...are you...

Think about it. Why is it a "student council"?

It's simple.

It's astonishingly simple.

If her objective is to "control the school as naturally as possible," a chairperson would be fine, too.

It's hiding its existence, exactly as the "transparent student council."
It can be "transparent."

Still, the reason it had to be a "student council."

This is by no means a product of coincidence.

It's because here was a girl crying all alone.

Because "she wanted to be with everyone as a student."

No, I will dare rephrase it.

Because she "wanted to be an artist."

But she herself knows she doesn't have an overwhelming talent.
So, she chose not a teacher, but a "student."

She tried to be on the "learning side."

Waka-san...

...tried to be "on the learning side together with everyone."

Sasamaru: Always think......ing about everyone but......clum...sy...

My voice is hoarse.

Aah, I can't speak anymore.

Sasamaru: Sim...ply cry...ing...

Squeeze it out.

A little bit is fine, squeeze your voice out.

Sasamaru: There was a girl who simply cried.

I can say it.

Yes.

There is something I must tell her.

Sasamaru: Hey, Mrs. Artist.

Looking straight at Waka-san's eyes, I tell her my last words.

Sasamaru: Save the girl called..."Waka."

Hey, I said it.

If you're going to deny me, then do it.

Ah

Ah

It en

ded

One butterfly is flying.

It is myself.

Am I dreaming of being a butterfly?
Is a butterfly dreaming of being myself?

In either case, where is the butterfly flying in?
I strain my eyes, but I can't see anything.

No, I wonder...if there is nothing here.

This world is without any walls, transparent, thoroughly clear...and also, empty.

No.
It's different.

Countless butterflies spreading all over.

Despite spreading all over, the other butterflies aren't obstructing my advance.

It's the same for the other butterflies.
I'm not obstructing their advance.

This world only has butterflies. Despite everyone flying as they wish, no one is bumping into each other.

This is the complete opposite of the world I was living in.

That world only has humans. But they will immediately bump into each other if they fly away as they wish.

So, this place is the same as a paradise for humans coming from that world.

Despite this...

Sasamaru: (It's sad.)

To not bump into anyone is sad.
This world where no one bumps nor talks nor clashes with each other is sad.

For there is no kindness here.

In Japanese, kindness "優" is written with person "イ" and grief "憂".

This world without grief has no kindness.
Without grief, humans cannot know about kindness.

I understand. Maybe this is what it means to "become transparent."

Recognized by no one, clashing with no one, sharing kindness with no one.

There is no "someone" for oneself.
There is no "oneself" for someone.

An eternal solitude.
Endless solitude.
An absolute...
solitude.

No conflict, forever and always at peace, simply able to keep living as oneself.

This is...

...a very worthless world.

Sasamaru: (I'm really realizing.)

...That pain accompanies kindness.

This world has no pain.

No one touches each other, so, the pain never arrives.

One never gets hurt.

Sasamaru: (It's indeed peaceful.)

A very boring peace.

There is no sun shining radiantly to warm us in harsh times.

If one takes the wrong road, there is no sister to tell, even by force, about one's mistake.

In here...
there isn't a girl more lovable than anyone to err together and, for this same reason, walk together while compensating for each other's faults.

I'm sure they're somewhere.

But I can't tell which one it is.
No one can.

This fucking world.

Sasamaru: (Worthless.)

So, "dying" was something worthless like this.

I want to live.
I want to keep living.

I don't care if I get hurt.
I don't mind if it's painful or sad.

I don't want to forget about grief.
For I can become kind each time.

So, I want to live.
I want to keep living.

Aah, I get it. So, this is the so-called "grief of the dead." I'm strangely consenting.

Sasamaru: (Ah.)

The moment I consent, I realize.
The truth slipped at the moment I accepted death.

The truth that "I am not dead."

I have one conviction.
When Hiyo disappeared, I was able to endure because of this.
If I follow this conviction, it means I'm not dead.

I have several evidences for this.

And the strongest evidence among these...
is the fact that "to kill isn't Waka-san's objective."

She didn't curse.

She {\i1}wished{\i0}, "kindness should just wither."

Which means...
this is a world where her wish was fulfilled.

The ones here are the ones withered inside her wish.

And there is the fact that "it's in the shape of a butterfly."

The world she kept wishing for despite giving up. She could never again touch that scenery she wished, wished, wished, and kept wishing.
The ones in this world must be only the butterflies painted in that scenery.

However, this world doesn't bear the slightest resemblance to the world she wished for.

It's the truth she arrived at.

To make the butterflies from that scenery fly here...
is nothing more than a contradiction.

The "contradiction" conflicting inside her.

I'll have her destroy this contradiction with her own hands.

I pointed this out.

All that's left...
is her role.

Hey, look.
It's moving.

I'm being pulled. As if following the gravity, my body is being pulled.

Unable to fly despite being a butterfly, I'm simply falling.

Where am I falling to?

There's no need to think about this.

//text on screen
Prideful Artists/Heroes

Sasamaru: Hey.

I wonder how much time has passed since then.
I wonder when is now.

After going through that unbelievable experience, I do a truly carefree greeting.

I'm sure it's because I was able to believe in her.

Waka: Will you look?

These are her first words.

I'm very happy about these words.

Sasamaru: May I?

Waka: Of course.

Sasamaru: You fine with me...being the first to look?

Waka: I want you to be the first one.

What an honor.

The person who protects the artists' dignity more than anyone says this to me.

The person who respects even the artists' "eggs"—the future artists who simply think of "wanting to become one"—says this to me.

Sasamaru: Thanks.

I'll carefully take a look...

...at your...

...at your landscape.

Waka: How is it? I'm clumsy, ain't I?

Sasamaru: That's not true.

Waka: You don't have to lie. You can laugh, okay?

Sasamaru: Yes, the technique is shoddy. Also, no artistic sense.

Waka: I knew it.

Sasamaru: But you don't call this clumsy.

Waka: Hmm?

Sasamaru: You call "clumsy" people who paint something not in their hearts. People who paint "something like it" while not knowing what they want to paint.

Sasamaru: Which part of this painting is lacking a heart?

Sasamaru: If someone laughs at this painting, I'll clearly say this, "which part of this painting are you looking at?"

One painting lies before me.

A painting as if plastering over her heart.

As if each stroke, each single stroke, was carefully, very carefully sharing her self.

Waka: Pff...

Waka-san...

Waka: Hahaha.

...laughs.

Waka: Hahahahaha.

She laughs in a very loud voice, as if it was so funny, so funny, that she couldn't hold it back.

Waka: And you could have just laughed. I don't mind if you just laugh away.

Sasamaru: I can't be that rude. Not toward an artist with such a refreshing face after doing her best.

Waka: Hahahaha.

The girl who painted that has a very...

...a very kind face.

A girl laughing with a lovely smile.

Waka: Hey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Waka: It appears the girl called Waka was saved.

Sasamaru: You're amazing, Waka-san. You saved one person.

Waka: It's you who saved her.

Sasamaru: What are you talking about? Your painting saved one person. You're amazing. May I call you teacher?

Waka: The teacher...is you, right?

After looking at the girl being shy, my chest is filled with happiness.

The painting saved the human heart.

Just like that day when I thought, "I want to turn this scenery into a painting."

Again, a "painting" saved one person.

Waka: Hey.

Sasamaru: Hmm?

Then, Waka-san tells me once more.

Waka: I'll confess.

Sasamaru: Confess?

Waka: I like you.

Looking straight at me, she tells me her feelings.

Waka: I love you.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Grandpa, I...love you.

Waka: I'm saying that I hate you, old geezer.

Sasamaru.

Tomono Sasamaru.

I guess she finally forgave her grandfather—me.

Sasamaru: I'll gladly accept those feelings.

But I can only reply this.

Because I'm merely the human who {\i1}was{\i0} Tomono Sasamaru.

Because I'm Suu Sasa.

Cacophonous when you call the full name, I'm Suu Sasa of the "Four Noble Ones."

Waka: Right. You wanted to settle the things of your past self.

Sasamaru: No. I am myself.

Waka: Then...

Sasamaru: I just wanted to save you.

Waka: But why?

Sasamaru: Because I had ones who saved me, who was empty.

Sasamaru: Good-natured ones who saved me, who was useless and didn't even know what I wanted to do.

Sasamaru: So, I wanted to save you.

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Because I'm from the "Four Noble Ones."

Sasamaru: Yes, I might be "Sasamaru," but I'll yield anything but this pride.

Sasamaru: So, I'm a {\i1}Sasa who is here and now.{\i0} Suu Sasa who is in the Four Noble Ones replacing the "bamboo."

Waka: Got it. You are...

Waka: ...no longer my grandfather, right?

Saying this...
she smiles and...

...seems a bit sad.

At this moment, the event that occurs...

What was bound to occur from the circumstances of the days accumulated so far in this world occurs.

Waka: Ugh!

At first, I hear a voice like a sob.

And next...

Sasamaru: Wha...!

What overflows is a "scream."

As if the color called darkness raised a scream of sorrow. As if this was echoing in this school, in this space.
But at the same time, as if a bizarre voice transformed into a color. It's a paradoxical scenery.

It is...
It is, for me, as if...

It's as if that darkness nesting inside me had finally overflowed.

A feeling as if I was seeing for the first time that darkness as an object.

"So, that darkness...that curse had this shape."

Aah, I knew it.

Sasamaru: (But of course.)

I finally agree.

Because her heart broke down.

The anger, resentment, hatred, grief.
And the curse.

Enveloping all this, transcending all this, she then "doubted."

These feelings broke down.

The deceit she kept deceiving herself was ripped off.

But of course.

"If you curse someone, its retribution will return to you."

Hiyo: I think...kindness is something conveyed to others.

The fact that feelings return to oneself.

It's {\i1}the same if you betray.{\i0}

This is the natural, and the very...
the very sad structure of the world.

Waka: Ngh!

The stronger the feelings of cursing are...

The stronger the feelings of doubt are...
the thicker and heavier it strikes back at oneself.

Waka: Uuuuughh!

She is crying.

I'm sure someone will ask.

"What are those tears?"
"For what are you crying?"
"Do you have the right to cry?"

Someone will criticize, "you are reaping what you sowed."

Waka: I'm sorry.

She says this.

Waka: I'm sorry.

She repeats this.

Waka: Sorry for hurting everyone.

She is crying for repentance.

Each single teardrop shed...
is for someone.

Hiyo.

Araragi.

Harutsuge.

For everyone who existed in the school.
For each one of them.

Sasamaru: Waka-san!!

I rush out and she holds me back.

Waka: It's fine. There's no other way.

"No other way."
She says this...

...while inside this suffering that might crush her at any moment.

...while shedding tears for "everyone," a number too large to enumerate.

Waka: I have a...request.

Sasamaru: What is it!? I'll do anything I can. Say it!!

Waka: Kill me.

Sasamaru: Wha...!

Waka: There's no other way. The suffering and pain are all circumstances of what I have done. It's my duty to shoulder this.

Waka: Dozens, hundreds, thousands of years. I understand that it's inevitable to keep suffering like this.

Sasamaru: What...are you...

Waka: But then, this curse won't end.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Waka: This curse is {\i1}'to wither.'{\i0} It's not to kill someone. If this continues, it will be eternally stopped on me. It won't disappear, even if thousands of years pass.

Waka: So, kill me and release this curse.

Sasamaru: Waka...san.

Waka: The curse will disperse if there's no target to curse. Then, the people affected by this curse will wake up.

Sasamaru: Eh.

Waka: I beg you.

Sasamaru: ...

After these words, I'm now confident...

...that {\i1}no one has died.{\i0}

In this season, the trees' leaves change clothes to red and yellow, creating the red leaves' scenery.

"That is this country's autumn landscape."
This perception is usually overlooked, but, in fact, the ones that change their colors are only the deciduous trees.

That's why the trees drop their leaves: to live on.

The leaves fall because the trees start storing inside themselves the nutrients they send to the leaves. As if grieving the fact they were abandoned, the {\i1}cut down{\i0} leaves lose their color.

Leaves being lost to red, the "red leaves."
Leaves being lost to yellow, the "yellow leaves."
Leaves being lost to brown, the "brown leaves."

This is the outcome of each of their cries.

The general term for these tears is "red leaves—Momiji."

Then, Momiji is dead?
To wither means to die?

If asked this...

...the answer is no.

Because {\i1}"Momiji,"{\i0} the tears, are a materialization of feelings.

They shed tears because they have feelings.

Without feelings, humans would not shed tears.

Then, {\i1}who shed those tears?{\i0}
Who was crying?

This answer is now before me.

For I believe in these "feelings."

I'm here now because I believe in them.

At that time too...

...I ran to Waka-san with this confidence.

Why is this world so kind?

Waka: Kill...me.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: Just one life has to stop. My life.

Waka: It's the curse, the words that fell out of me. If I, the tree, fall, the other leaves will be saved.

Sasamaru: ...

Waka: You showed me...that the land is not rotten. That it doesn't need to wither.

Waka: ...No, it can never wither.

Waka: So...I beg you, {\i1}Sasa.{\i0}

After her words...

...I have but a single method to answer her.

Sasamaru: Got it. I'll kill you.

Waka: Yes. Thank you.

Don't smile.

Now, of all times, do not happily smile to me.

So, do not smile.

You should smile...
after this!!

Waka: Wha...what are you doing!?

Sasamaru: I'm connecting the hands.

Waka: Y-you idiot! Let go of me!!

I'll teach you.

I'll teach you what they, what the "Four Noble Ones" have taught me.

Sasamaru: No way.

Waka: You'll be dragged too!!

Sasamaru: Nngh!

Waka: Hurry! Let me go!

Sasamaru: No...way.

Waka: What are you saying!? I'm already saved! So, only I should...

Sasamaru: Don't fricking screw with me!!

Waka: Eh.

Sasamaru: You involved everyone with your selfishness, and now...you regret and will save everyone by sacrificing yourself?

Sasamaru: That's an incorrigible rich lady. Jeez, I want to have a talk with your grandfather.

Waka: T-this is no time to say that.

Sasamaru: But that aspect of you, always thinking about "everyone"...I don't hate it. I respect it.

Waka: And what are you talking about now!?

Sasamaru: And you, what are you saying? Look closer.

Sasamaru: My left hand is connected to yours. Then, what is my right hand connected to?

Waka: Eh?

Sasamaru: Can't you see?

Waka: B...big sis.

Sasamaru: She came because she thought, "I must save her." Can't you see? Is it still transparent to you?

Waka: Ah!

Sasamaru: Good, you can see it.

Waka: W...why...

Sasamaru: Stop with the stupid question. Right, sister?

Waka: Wha...wha...

Sasamaru: Look closer. Don't doubt anymore. Do not ever doubt...

Sasamaru: ...that "kindness" is connected.

Waka: W...why, why are you...

Sasamaru: Because sympathizing cannot be done alone. You need someone else.

Sasamaru: So, this is something {\i1}natural.{\i0}

Sasamaru: Aaarrgggghhhh!!

Waka: A-all right! I got it!

Waka: So...so, let go of my hand!!

Sasamaru: I...said...no way! How many times will I have to say it!?

Waka: Let it go!!

Sasamaru: I won't let go. Even if this world breaks, I won't let go.

Sasamaru: So, Waka-san. Let's deny.

Waka: Eh?

Sasamaru: Let's deny this world. You no longer need this closed school, do you?

Waka: ...

Sasamaru: Waka-san.

Sasamaru: Welcome to our world.

Yes.
Because in there was...

...in this closed world, there was a girl who was crying while clasping her arms around her knees.

This hand is already connected.

//text on screen
It appears this story wasn't unnecessary.

Sasamaru: Seems like it's breaking.

Harutsuge: No, you broke it. Jeez, you are too bold.

Araragi: Sasamaru-chan is such a bigwig.

//text on screen
It is a story worthy of being told.

Sasamaru: Sorry...that it all turned out like this.

Hiyo: You do not need to apologize, honey. Everyone knows about it.

Hiyo: Because we are connecting hands like this.

Sasamaru: Yeah. You're right.

Harutsuge: That's right, Sasamaru-kun. Don't think the merit is all yours. Don't forget that I too have the right to the nickname "World Crusher."

Sasamaru: I'll grant it to you, then.

Harutsuge: No need.

Araragi: Harutsuge-chan is so unrestrained. She's forever and ever unrestrained.

Hiyo: It's not a single person. It's everyone.

Sasamaru: Right. Yeah, you're right.

A world falling apart.

The Möbius, the loop without front nor back side, has come loose, becoming a single origami. In Japanese, 'loop' and 'Japanese-style' can be pronounced the same.

We are looking down on the crumbling world.

//text on screen
To them, who accomplished an unnecessary story worthy of telling...

//text on screen
a toast.

Sasamaru: So, the Yumemidori Academy will disappear.

Hiyo: You do not need to feel sad, honey. Because, I'm sure...

Sasamaru: Okay. Then, it will become one.

Hiyo: Yes.

Hiyo strongly clasps my hand.

Hiyo: Like this, now the worlds will take hands and become one.

Sasamaru: I have nothing to fear, then.

If she's holding this hand, that is.

Hiyo: But I wonder to where we will fall.

Sasamaru: Don't worry about that.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasamaru: Hiyo, do you remember when I first met Waka-san?

Sasamaru: At that time, didn't Waka-san say, "I have a message from the student council president"? Though, she disliked me, and we didn't resolve this.

Hiyo: Ah...come to think of it, that's true.

Sasamaru: In the end, the student council president was Waka-san herself. Meaning that the "message" was from Waka-san herself. But what do you think she wanted to tell me?

Hiyo: Hehe, understood, honey.

Sasamaru: Yeah. So, we don't need to worry.

Waka-san knew there was a student from the red team who hadn't come to school.

She met me.
At that time, she didn't know who I was.

So, Waka-san tried to say...

"Welcome to the Yumemidori Academy."

//Chapter 3 end

This hand is connected.

//Chapter 4 start

//subchapter
Goodbye to "Morning Color"
September 3 (Thursday)
This hand is connected.

//text on screen
"{\i1}Its{\i0} shape is different for each person."
I wonder when it was that I started thinking this.

A vivid color dyeing the mountains.

A bright stain, as if paints of various sizes had spilled from the sky.

Looking at the mountains as a single canvas with different shades and intensities, what is completed there is the picture called "autumn."

In this season, the trees' leaves change clothes to red and yellow, creating the red leaves' scenery.

"That is this country's autumn landscape."
This perception is usually overlooked, but, in fact, the ones that change their colors are only the deciduous trees.

The evergreen trees, as the name implies, always preserve their leaves.

Although, an ideal environment for the trees—that is, with enough water throughout the year and a warm and pleasant environment—is very rare.

That's why the trees drop their leaves: to live on.

The leaves fall because the trees start storing inside themselves the nutrients they send to the leaves. As if grieving the fact they were abandoned, the {\i1}cut down{\i0} leaves lose their color.

Leaves being lost to red, the "red leaves."
Leaves being lost to yellow, the "yellow leaves."
Leaves being lost to brown, the "brown leaves."

This is the outcome of each of their cries.

The general term for these tears is "Momiji."

I'm taken aback by the landscape stretching before my eyes.

It's almost a scenery from another world.

For some reason, the several clouds on top of each other are like waves.
Ebbing and flowing, they are creating a sea in the air.

This scenery is like a sea of clouds.

This scenery that can even be called "sea of clouds" is so fantastic that I think I'm hearing the sound of the waves.

It is so fictitious that I don't think it's a real scenery or an extension of reality.

I'm surprised enough to doubt my eyes, but, at the same time, I can't hold back this rising feeling.

Aah, that's right. It's starting.

It's starting {\i1}here{\i0}.

//text on screen
...In this Yumemidori Academy colored with Momiji.

Sasa: (But of course.)

It's starting now.

My new student life at this Yumemidori Academy.

Well...

...what should {\i1}I{\i0} do?

I finally make my {\i1}first appearance{\i0} at this school.

The sacred mountain for artists' aspirants is supported by the entry exam's violent shake-off, which is rumored to disregard even the administration.
A narrow gate.

The yearned Yumemidori Academy.

And the first person I encounter here is...

Aone: G-good day.

...Aone, as if she was lying in wait for me.

No.
It's not "as if."

She knew I was coming today.

Before, she didn't know it was "I" but...
she knew that "an absent student from the red team would come on this day."

I wonder what I was looking at.

I am two selves.

Despite this, I wasn't looking at "the other myself."

Sorry.
I'm sorry.

But watch me.

Your sister will walk forward with all her might.

I'll become just like him.

I'll become a sister you'll unconsciously brag about, a sister you'll want to follow as an example.

Hey, Kiyo.

Please watch my first step.

Aone: Ahem.

After clearing her throat once, Aone...

Aone: {\i1}Long time no see.{\i0}

...says this with a smile.

Sasa: Yeah, {\i1}long time no see.{\i0}

Enticed, I too smile.

Good. So, that's your decision.
There's nothing strange with those words, then.

Because this moment is our re-encounter after several years.

Sasa: We haven't seen each other since childhood. Right, Shisoku Norika-san?

Aone: You're right.

She smiles at these words.

Aone: I'm sure you'll give me a weird nickname.

She prophesizes this.

And this prophecy will hit the mark.

Aone: So, Suu-kun. I...will have you recognize me.

These are the words she tells after resolving herself.

The straightforward words from her, straightforward, pure, and always fair.

What an honor.

Sasa: Yeah.

I am extremely honored.

For she is a pleasant girl, exactly like the blue sky.

And from behind her, a girl shows her face.

My first step starts with distancing myself from sis.

It's the so-called independence from the sister.

I think that I'll remain helpless unless I do this.

We are always together, but...

...I won't use my sister as an "excuse" anymore.

I will take "responsibility."

I did many wrongdoings.
I hurt many people.

So, I'll apologize a lot, apologize very much...

...then I too will face forward.
Like him.

I understand a bit of why sis likes him.

Aomai: Long time no see.

Sasa: Yeah, long time no see.

Aomai: Hey. I too have an objective. Could you hear me?

Sasa: Of course.

Aomai: My objective is to make you say: "good kid."

It is a very refreshing voice.

Aomai: I'll make you say this before graduation.

Sasa: I think it won't take that long.

Aomai: You must not pamper me. I have too many minuses. You must not say it so easily.

Aomai: "Aah, she really has become a good kid." Say it when you truly feel this.

Sasa: Got it.

Aomai: I'm counting on you, bro.

Aone and Aomai.

Shisoku Norika and Shisoku Kiyo.

These sisters are like the clear blue sky.

Exactly as the color of the team they belong to.

They both said, "long time no see."

Those two chose the road of starting over from scratch.

I'm sure they took it as a "chance to start over."

Nakarai: Boss!

Sasa: Bos...what?

But each person takes it differently.

Nakarai: Boss! I was waiting for you!

Sasa: Boss...do you mean me?

Each person takes this event differently.

Nakarai: Yes! I'll forever follow boss Suu!

There are ones who take it as a continuation of those days, without a change.

I felt refreshed after boldly cutting off my hair.

I thought it would be good if I could refresh everything with this, but...
this is proof I'm still naive.

I must not be so optimistic.

So, this head is my present position.

I will start from here.

Nakarai: Tell me if there's anything. Trifle errands or toilet cleaning, I'll do anything there is.

Sasa: Wait, what are you...

Nakarai: I have to thoroughly beat my character into shape. Just say anything you need.

Sasa: ...

This is the outcome after Nakarai Nobuo took this result.

Nakarai: I said this to all members of the red team. 'Cause it's thanks to y'all that I can feel like this.

Sasa: That's not true.

Nakarai: No. I am an underling of the red team.

He didn't put his long hair in order; he drastically shaved all of it.

This is nothing more than the action of "shaving one's head."

Nakarai: As an underling, I really should be standing beside y'all, but it's my fault the white team fellas are strange. It's my responsibility to start with this.

Nakarai: Sorry. Very sorry. But I'll come running anytime you call.

Sasa: ...Good.

Honestly, such an opportunity will never come, but...
I'm happy for his feelings.

His courage of wanting to change.

His pride of wanting to change after accepting everything that had happened.

I'm sure his feelings will reach the white team's students, whom he called "my responsibility."

Sasa: Now I'm at a loss.

Nakarai: Eh?

Sasa: This year's white team looks tough.

After I say this, Nakarai happily...

Nakarai: Thank you very much!

...and deeply lowers his head and smiles.

Nakarai: Yes, boss. Let me introduce my best friend.

Sasa: Your best friend?

Nakarai: Yes. My "best friend."

The individual he introduces while puffing his chest...

...is...

Jin: ...

Sasa: ...Good.

I {\i1}meet Jin Reiji as Nakarai Nobuo's best friend.{\i0}

I stopped wearing glasses.

This small determination won't change a thing, but, regardless, I thought of starting somewhere.

I thought of piling up little by little.

Jin: I too must improve myself.

Sasa: This is indeed the prestigious school: the Yumemidori Academy.

Jin: Eh?

Sasa: All the men in this school have fine eyes.

Jin: Thank you.

His prideful smile is proof that he's a student from the Yumemidori Academy.

Jin: I can work hard because there is someone who calls me a friend.

Sasa: How reliable.

Jin: Yes. Extremely irreplaceable.

Everyone is taking it in their own ways.

How to live the days between the ones starting anew and the ones remaining in their memories.

What they have accomplished.
What they have done.

It's easy to undo it. 
Just pretend you don't know anything.
The conditions for this are scattered everywhere.

Even if you pretend you don't know anything, I'm sure the others will accept that "this person chose this" and will play along.

But if they, on top of all this, don't "undo it"...

If they accept what they accomplished and what they did, and want to overcome it...

...I'm sure everyone will bless this decision and lend a hand.

Jin: I will now run. I must first run, run, run, and run to line up with you.

Jin: I will start from here, but this 'first' is absurd. I think so when I look at you.

I do an awkward smile.

Jin: But I will never give up. Until I can someday call you my brother-in-law.

Sasa: I won't give our elder sister so easily.

Jin: But of course. So, this is absurd on top of absurd.

Aah, jeez.

All classes look tough this year.

Nakarai: Then, boss. Call if anything happens.

Sasa: Do you too have an objective?

Nakarai: I do. But the priority is to beat my character into shape. It'll be a bit harsh otherwise.

Sasa: Harsh?

Nakarai: 'Cause I {\i1}must be able to accept you along with her.{\i0} A small effort won't be enough.

Sasa: ...

Nakarai: You won't disappear from her. No man can make you disappear from her. So, I must become a man to accept you, too.

Sasa: You're really...

Nakarai: Sorry! I'm being impertinent!

Aah.
This is the Yumemidori Academy.
The place where prideful ones gather.

Ones who have the pride to accept their mistakes.
Ones who have pride to face forward.
No one denies this.

There's no one here who mistakes the meaning of "pride."

Sasa: Sorry for troubling you.

Yumemidori Academy, staff room.

Just like that time, I lower my head.

I have caused him to worry quite a bit.

Really, I'm forever worthless.
The students are always teaching me.

Oh, boy. What can someone like me teach these excellent students?

Hey, look. Another one.

An unbelievable one has come to the school.

Onitake-sensei: You sure took your time to pass through the gate, Suu Sasa.

Then, the teacher speaks the same words from that time.

But this time, she continues.

Onitake-sensei: But I guess it doesn't matter if it's early or late. You have surpassed it.

Onitake-sensei: Really, I too can't keep wasting my time.

Onitake-sensei says this.

An "adult" says this to me.

Sasa: Thank you very much.

So, this time, I don't apologize. I thank her.

Sasa: And treat me well from now on, Onitake-sensei.

I deeply lower my head and ask an "adult" for guidance.

Onitake-sensei: Well, everyone. His name is Suu Sasa. Due to some circumstances, he was absent until now, but he'll study in this class starting today.

Again, the teacher says the same words from that time.

The teacher is not retracing the past.
She is merely speaking this as the duty of the homeroom teacher, since I'll be learning in this class from "today" on.

How is everyone taking this fact?

Despite being fully aware each one is different, I dare say this.

//text on screen
"{\i1}Its{\i0} shape is different for each person." I wonder when it was that I started thinking this.

Onitake-sensei: By the way, his birthday is March 3. His zodiac sign is Pisces. Blood type is O. His hobby is touching the "Japanese." His special skill...

Harutsuge: His special skill is to concentrate his mind by thinking over bits of knowledge. The "Sasa Time."

Onitake-sensei: Hmm, you sure know him well.

Harutsuge: Yes, I do know.

Onitake-sensei: I guess there's no need for introductions, then.

Harutsuge: Yes.

Telling this, Harutsuge...

Harutsuge: What is needed is the greeting of the re-encounter.

...says this and stands up.

Harutsuge: Long time no see, Saa-kun.

Sasa: Yeah. Long time no see, Harutsuge.

"Saa-kun."

My name will never again {\i1}be pulled{\i0}.
So, when calling me, she uses "Saa-kun," just like in the past.

Harutsuge: Your seat is between Hiyo, who is absent today, and me. Start by thinking about the meaning of why your seat is there.

After saying this, Harutsuge jokingly smiles.

Jeez, our elder sister sure throws the most difficult questions.

When Harutsuge returns to her seat, the sunlight shines in from the window.

Shining brightly, it is...

Araragi: Long time no see, Saa-chan.

Sasa: Yeah. Long time no see, Araragi.

"Saa-chan."

And Araragi too.

Araragi: I was waiting for so long.

Aah, of course.

Sasa: ...Thanks.

That day, I really...

...wanted to hear these words.

Araragi: Will we play together again?

Sasa: O...of course. Me too...I'm...looking forward to it.

Harutsuge: Don't cry, you idiot.

Sasa: Sorry.

I hurriedly rub the corner of my eyes.

Harutsuge: Saa-kun.

Sasa: Hmm?

Harutsuge: And thus, the "Four Noble Ones" have finally gathered.

The tears I was pinning down overflow.

You're too unfair, Harutsuge.

Ones who decided to start over from their encounters.
Ones who accepted it as a continuation of the days so far.
Each one is different.

There might be ones who pretend the past didn't exist.
But even if this isn't the case, there are {\i1}ones who need to start over the relationship.{\i0}

Ones who, still, need to start over while accepting what they accomplished and did, while never pretending it didn't exist.

For this is the long-awaited chance, never again to {\i1}return.{\i0}

Then, what about myself?

How on earth should I accept it?

Hiyo: Honey.

Sasa: Hey, Hiyo.

Yes.
It's the long-awaited chance, never again to return.
So, I won't mistake this time.

And she too.

Hiyo skipped classes that day, thinking, "because I kept lying," and, "I don't know how I should face him."

But now, she is here.

Without confining herself in the dormitory while not knowing what to do, she came to me.

This is her choice.

Hiyo: Let me ask one thing.

Hiyo speaks these words.

Hiyo: Now, at this moment, do you need to start over the "entrance with everyone"?

Sasa: No.

It's what Hiyo did for me at that time.

But that is not necessary anymore.

Sasa: Araragi and Harutsuge did that.

Hiyo: What a pity.

Despite saying this, her voice tone doesn't seem even a bit regretful.

A happiness overflowing from her smile lies there.

We do not need to start over our encounter.
Nor do we need to start over that day's school entrance ceremony.

Because Hiyo was waiting here.

The dormitory where she lived with hesitation is also not a place for her to start over the "school entrance ceremony."

She was waiting at this "bamboo thicket."

Hiyo: Then, honey. This is not everyone's share; this is Kumigami Hiyo's.

Hiyo: Congratulations on attending the school.

Sasa: Thanks.

She accepts me, the Sasa...
the summer of the Four Noble Ones.

Because we are living in an adjoined time.

Sasa: Hiyo-senpai. Please take care of me.

Even so, I dare say the same words from that time.

I remember well what Hiyo replied at that time.

"Stop that, honey. Even if heaven and earth were turned upside down, I can't become your senior."
She said this.

At that time, I was confused, but now I know very well why Hiyo said that.

Then, the "present" Hiyo...

I wonder how the present Hiyo will answer.

Hiyo: Yes, honey. I may be inexperienced, but I will gladly teach you what I know.

Sasa: Thanks.

"I won't reach."

Each other taking one step back and looking up, "I won't reach you."

Each other looking up to one another as one's guide: "I want to become like you."

But now, our gazes are equal.

And now, our paces are equal.

Walking beside each other...

...and...
holding each other's hands as if it was natural.

Hiyo is wearing nurse clothes no more.

Because the "playing house" has already ended.

Sasa: Hiyo.

Hiyo: Yes?

Sasa: Could you stop with that "honey"?

This nickname was built on top of an unending 'playing house.'

Hiyo: Oh...well, I thought much about it, but how should I call you?

Yes, it's hard to change a name you have been calling for years.

You think of wanting to change, but the new name doesn't quite fit and the old one just slips in.

Sasa: Then, Hiyo. May I make one request?

Hiyo: Yes, honey.

Sasa: {\i1}Put away{\i0}...that "honey" name for a while.

Hiyo: Put...away?

Sasa: Yeah.

I overlap my other hand with hers, which is holding mine.

With both hands, I envelop the most treasured existence in this world.

Sasa: May I rephrase the words from that time?

Hiyo: That time?

Sasa: "Let's continue this playing house until we die."

Hiyo: Wh...what do you mean?

Sasa: I want to rephrase it, Hiyo.

Hiyo: Eh?

Sasa: "Let's make that playing house real."

Hiyo: ...

Sasa: A "playing house" forever is no good. Because we'll become adults.

Sasa: So, let's make it real. After I graduate and become famous someday, I'll say these words once more.

Sasa: Until that day, put away the "honey."

Hiyo: ...

In short...

...this is the marriage proposal from Suu Sasa to Kumigami Hiyo.

Hiyo: Hone...ah, well...hone...

Sasa: Call me however you want. But not how you're used to call me.

Sasa: Like normal boyfriend and girlfriend.

Hiyo: W...well...

Sasa: Yeah.

Hiyo: Err...dear...Sasa...

I don't want her to attach "dear" to a sweetheart.

But if Hiyo has chosen it, I'll accept it as her choice.

Hiyo: No...Sa...sa...

But there's more.

Hiyo: Sasa...san.

One step forward.

As to feel even closer than now.

Hiyo: Saa...san.

"Honey," "Saa-chan" and "Saa-kun."

This is how the girls called me since long ago.

But now, in order to make the "honey" real...

Because I believe she will make it "real," she...

Hiyo: Saa-san!

...calls me this.

Sasa: Yeah. What is it, Hiyo?

"{\i1}Its{\i0} shape is different for each person."

And in it...

...there's a kindness built by sacrificing oneself.

It is a kindness built by devoting oneself to one's loved one, even if having to wear oneself out.

But we both share this kindness.

Each other desperately improving oneself for the other and giving.

Without wishing for another's happiness through one's unhappiness.

In order for both to become happy together.

We can do this.

Because our feelings are already connected.

We do not doubt it.

What Hiyo has piled up so far.
What I have piled up so far.

I have fallen in love with her. I'm sure I can get closer to {\i1}it{\i0} just a little bit.

It can become "to each other."

This world is created on top of this piling up.

This is how this world is made up.

So, this world is so kind.

I wonder when it was that I started thinking this.

Harutsuge: Then, to celebrate Saa-kun's arrival...

The four: Cheers!

And today, my welcome party.

Everyone is celebrating my first coming to the school.

Araragi: Sorry, Saa-chan. We didn't have much time to prepare.

Sasa: No, thanks. I'm happy.

Everyone is saying to me, "congratulations."

They're blessing me by tapping on my shoulder.

Harutsuge: We'll cooperate and somehow recover the lesson time you lost.

Sasa: Thanks.

I have friends who help me with what I lack.

Harutsuge: You'll be fine.

They encourage me.

"Congratulations" and "thanks."

I speak this word as much as the number of times I think about it.

How happy I am to be in an environment where such a relationship is possible.

I am now savoring it.

The banquet is at full height.

Everyone is in high spirits, but a quiet moment arrives.

This is not silence nor lonesomeness. It's a quietness that arrived exactly because everyone is sharing this time.

Sasa: I'm kinda happy.

At this moment, my true feelings spill out.

Sasa: Everyone is here...accepting everything that has happened.

They're here on top of all that.

I'm unbearably happy friends like these are here for me.

Harutsuge: I'm accepting everything that has happened, regardless of the time I'm in.

Sasa: Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: I'm here now after experiencing all the events. If the time doesn't match, it's because it can't keep up with my speed.

Sasa: Sure.

It's a clear and straightforward answer, very typical of Harutsuge.

Harutsuge: But of course. I can finally say it. Finally. I have not a single regret.

Proudly and also happily, Harutsuge says this.

This must be that repentance toward myself.

And it's telling how much she was bothered by it.

Harutsuge: That's right. Everyone, listen. I, Harutsuge, am Saa-kun's...

Jin: Thank you for stopping me. And also...

Jin: ...the feelings I told you are real.

Harutsuge: Eh?

Jin: That I like you.

Harutsuge: ...Eh...eh?

Jin: I will err anything but this.

Harutsuge: Well, that's how it is. I, Harutsuge, received a passionate love confession from the opposite sex.

Sasa: Huh, wait a minute. Isn't that conversation odd?

Araragi: Well, this is how Harutsuge-chan is, Saa-chan.

Sasa: Should you really accept like that? Isn't this a very important scene?

Hiyo: But who would have thought Harutsuge-san was hone...Saa-san's real sister.

Araragi: I was so surprised.

Sasa: But isn't it odd that the conversation is going normally?

Araragi: This is Harutsuge-chan's unknown persuasiveness, Saa-chan.

Sasa: I mean, why is everyone accepting it? It's odd. This is so odd.

Hiyo: But for us, it doesn't change that Harutsuge-san is our elder sister.

Araragi: Right.

Sasa: Huh, it has settled for no reason. It settled just like that.

Harutsuge: Well, he straightforwardly said, "I like you."

Sasa: Wait, Harutsuge was just boasting the confession all this time! Why is it getting across? How is it getting across?

Harutsuge: What, Saa-kun. You jealous? Ah ha ha. Ah ha ha.

Sasa: I guess she's happier about someone confessing to her rather than who it was.

Your road is still very steep, Jin Reiji.

Do your best!

Harutsuge: Well, how about you, Araragi-kun? Did someone ever confess to ya?

Araragi: Eh...w-well...err, a little bit.

Harutsuge: Tch, I'm sure he's a lolicon. Okay, next.

Araragi: How cruel.

Hiyo: For myself, only Saa-san's feelings have meaning.

Harutsuge: Which means he's confessing to you every day. Ptui.

Harutsuge: Hmm?

Harutsuge: Huh? So, the only one who never received a confession until now was me?

Araragi: T-that's not true! Umm, umm, hey! From our hometown...that Ryozou-san from the third district! He said that he loved you!

Harutsuge: That's an old geezer. And since childhood, he always thought I was a man.

Araragi: Ah! That Maa-kun who was always at the vacant land! He loves you!

Harutsuge: That's a stray cat. And a female one.

Araragi: All the doggies in town adore you!

Harutsuge: For some reason, they all think I'm at the top of a pyramid. And unconditionally.

Araragi: A magnificent dog-tamer.

Harutsuge: Wait, Araragi-kun. You're not helping me here. That's sad instead.

Hiyo: So, for men, breasts don't necessarily are a woman's charm, right?

Harutsuge: Hey, why are you so relieved? Wait. Summing up, all this means that I'm a woman of boobs only.

Sasa: ...

Araragi: ...

Hiyo: ...

Harutsuge: Heeeey. Someone deny it, please. I'll cry. I'll cry, you hear? CRY!

The fruit called "everyone."

If there's someone to bite this fruit and appreciate the refreshing juice overflowing from it...

...there's also someone to secretly frown at the bitterness mixed in its core.

But its taste...

...is different from that time.

Araragi: Hey, Hiyo-chan.

Hiyo: What is the matter, Araragi-san?

Araragi: May I ask you to do one more toast with me?

Hiyo: Eh?

Hiyo is perplexed at these words.

Because these words...

Araragi: No?

Hiyo: It's...it's okay.

A satisfying sound echoes in the small room.

Araragi: I won't lose, you hear?

Exactly as that time.

Araragi: I won't lose.

Araragi looks straight into Hiyo's eyes and smiles.

Hiyo: Araragi...san.

Araragi: What I wanted to say was just that.

Araragi: I know your feelings veeeery well. So, I thought, "I must tell it."

Hiyo: ...

Araragi: Tee hee. I'm very strong, you hear? Hiyo-chan.

Hiyo: I...I won't lose!

Araragi: Yup.

The two look at each other and smile.

Harutsuge: You sure, Araragi-kun?

Araragi: About what?

Harutsuge: I don't care about names for convenience's sake like "first cycle" or "second cycle" but...

Harutsuge: We have recovered our memories so far. Saa-kun lived the third cycle while having part of his second cycle's memories. But now, everyone has recovered the memories of everything that happened.

Harutsuge: So, I too remembered. I dare say that in the "first cycle," you and Saa-kun...

Araragi: It's fine.

Harutsuge: ...

Araragi: It would turn out like this sooner or later.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun.

Araragi: I said at the "second cycle," Harutsuge-chan. Those too are my real feelings.

Araragi: Besides, I was able to say it. I was able to confess to Saa-chan and was able to repay Hiyo-chan the debt from that time.

Araragi: So, I'm satisfied.

Harutsuge: Araragi-kun.

Kashi Harutsuge understands Yumeno Araragi more than anyone.

If Yumeno Araragi were saying this while enduring something, Kashi Harutsuge could see it.

However, Yumeno Araragi now has a very refreshing expression.

It appears so to Kashi Harutsuge.

If this is Yumeno Araragi's answer, Kashi Harutsuge will accept it.

Harutsuge: Good. So, your virginity is safe and sound.

Harutsuge has always sought a handshake from Araragi.

Harutsuge: Hiyo-kun went first. We'll have to protect the virgin domain with just the two of us.

Araragi: How should I reply to that, Harutsuge-chan?

Harutsuge: Congratulations, Hiyo-kun.

Hiyo: About...what?

Harutsuge: We did a hasty celebration the other time, didn't we? So, now we're re-celebrating.

Harutsuge: "We simply moved positions while not remembering any of {\i1}it{\i0}." Which means you became an adult ahead of us.

Being told this, Hiyo's cheeks are very fast dyeing in deep red.

Harutsuge: What a sight, what a sight.

Hiyo: Jeez...Harutsuge-san.

Despite being embarrassed, Hiyo reflects upon the weight of these words.

Hiyo: An adult.

But the words she mutters are heavy.

Hiyo: I have always wished to "become one."

"Because I can't do things well."
"Because I can't reach it."
"Faster...
even if a little bit."

Hiyo: I am finally able to walk beside him. However, I cannot help but feel that he has become an adult ahead of everyone.

Harutsuge: ...

Perhaps Kumigami Hiyo has lost sight of her objective.

Always, always yearning, she kept yearning...
and now that it has been granted, perhaps she doesn't know where she should go.

Thinking thoroughly, there are as many objectives as she wants.

But when a great childhood objective is achieved after pursuing it wholeheartedly, humans are filled with a sense of accomplishment...
and, before they notice, they feel a sense of loss.

Hiyo: I feel that he is gradually getting more distant.

Now, this is how Hiyo is feeling.

Harutsuge: You're wrong.

Hiyo: Eh?

So, she says this.
Kashi Harutsuge, "everyone's sister," says this.

Harutsuge: It's not an adult, Hiyo-kun. My dear brother became a "man."

Her voice is very powerful...

...and trembling with excitement.

Harutsuge: So, go become a good "woman." Then, you'll be able to walk beside him.

Hiyo: Yes.

Now, Kumigami Hiyo has obtained a new objective.

She will be all right, then.

Hiyo: That's our sister.

After being told this, Harutsuge, who was hesitating...

Harutsuge: From the blood relationship, I might become your actual sister, though.

...can now smile and reply with a joke like always.

//text on screen
And thus, our "encounter" and "re-encounter" have ended.

Now, our everyday life will start.

Onitake-sensei: Good morning, everyone. Before starting the lesson, there's a topic I must discuss with you all.

Onitake-sensei: I think you're all aware, but we'll soon enter the "Ayanashisai" season.

Onitake-sensei: And I want to ask your opinions about the work our class will create.

Onitake-sensei: How about it? Does anyone have a...

Onitake-sensei: ...It seems this year's victory is ours.

The sacred mountain for artists' aspirants, the Yumemidori Academy.
It is built on top of coincidences.

The "shake-off" that disregards the administration.
What created this is the rumor of "only the actual chosen ones can enroll."

There are plenty of other coincidences.
Countless factors not shown in our story.

However, there's no longer meaning in searching for all these.

If there's one thing we must not forget...

...is the fact that this school treasures the "artists."

...the fact that it treats us students—mere eggs still halfway on our roads—as "artists."

...the fact that here lies the "heart" of this school.

...the fact that the words "the Yumemidori Academy is a sacred mountain for artists' aspirants" were born from ones who accepted these feelings.

So...

"I will turn this school into a real 'Yumemidori Academy.'"

This became his favorite phrase after he arrived here.

His hand...

...is even now overlapping with mine.

"I cannot think like that."

After holding his hand, I feel ridiculous for having worried about this.

I will stay beside him.
I decided on this.

When I err, he will pull my hand.
When he errs, I will pull his.

If I walk with my own legs, it will be all right.

No need to worry.

For this hand is always connected.

To come here after class has become my daily routine.

Sasa: ...

Everyone is here.
Hiyo, Araragi, and Harutsuge.
And even Aone, Aomai, Onitake-sensei, Jin, and Nakarai.

But I still haven't seen her.

I haven't seen her so far.

In this school's landscape painted with Momiji...
only she is missing.

"I'll be waiting."

At that time, it was a promise clinging to her kindness on the spur of the moment.

So, I'm waiting here.

I don't think that day's promise is still ongoing, but still, I keep waiting here.

Sasa: Waka-san. The Ayanashisai has started.

But this too will end today.

Now that the Ayanashisai's preparation period has started, the time when I can come here is limited.

In my hand, a milk tea.

What she liked so much.
The milk tea that is one of the "bonds" for her.

Sasa: Oops.

The can that slips from my palm rolls on the wooden floor.

When I hurriedly try to pick it up...

...multicolored pieces of paper cross the atmospheric ocean.

Sasa: (This is the...)

After pilling up one on top of another while dancing in the wind, the landscape built there suggests one season.

Sasa: (This...is that!)

Yes, it's almost like the autumn.

The autumn landscape created by these pieces of paper is like a legend from a poem book.

My breath is taken away...

...by this sensation of almost melting into it.

It's similar to the sensation when there's an exceptional piece of art before you.

In this red autumn world—as if it was dyed using the sunset as the paint—there's a mansion built by the origami called pieces of paper.

This mansion is a capital.

A giant ancient city, elegant and graceful.

Then...

Then, I'm sure there is...

Sasa: Waka-san.

Waka: ...

What should I say?
What should I tell her?

But meeting here, the first thing I should say is...

Sasa: Good timing. That is your milk tea...

Waka: It's yours.

But...
saying this, what Waka-san holds out is...

Sasa: This is...

Waka: It's yours.

...Mine?

Waka-san is giving me the milk tea?

Sasa: Waka-san.

Waka: It's yours!

I take the milk tea she hands over.

A warm can of black tea.

The warmth circulating in my palm.

Sasa: ...

The meaning of her giving me this.

Sasa: Thanks.

Then, these are the only words I have to reply.

Waka: Yup.

I will now accept...
the meaning of the extraordinary smile she shows me.

Sasa: Welcome back, Waka-san.

Waka: I'm back.

"I'm back."

These words disappear in the air.

Today, this school has shown in one more new "student."

I'll learn in this school, together with you.

But I can no longer see her.

When we finally see each other again, she disappears.

Sasa: Welcome back.

My trembling lips somehow put words together.

Sasa: Welcome back, Waka-san!

I wonder if my words reached her.

Her, this Yumemidori Academy.

"I will turn this school into a real 'Yumemidori Academy.'"

It isn't just him who harbors these "feelings."

The students leave the school each time the graduation ceremony passes.

Harutsuge-san and the others, graduating earlier than us.
Next, us.
And Araragi-san and the others, the {\i1}last generation.{\i0}

Having carried out its objective, this school will disappear.
Having carried out its role, this school will disappear.

The Yumemidori Academy...
will disappear.

Waka: Thank you for keeping me company.

This project, left by a certain graduate student, is even now decorating the Yumemidori Academy.

She, the Yumemidori Academy, is even now tightly embracing it.

//text on screen
Surely, More Than Even The Clear Morning Color,
With you, here and now,
With as many bonds as the number of encounters,
This hand is connected.
